This methodology represents greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
stationary combustion of biomass and biogas fuels. The data and
calculation methodology originates from the UK government department
DEFRA, as published in their most recent [greenhouse gas (GHG)
conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting)
documentation.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The emissions calculation methodology is based upon emissions factors
which relate mass- or energy-based quantities of biomass/biogas fuel
with their associated quantity of greenhouse gas emissions.

Because the fuels represented in this category are derived from recently
grown biomass, the emissions they produce on combustion are almost
entirely benign from the point of view of atmospheric warming: the
carbon released from the biomass tissues has only recently been
sequestered from the atmosphere (during plant growth) and therefore does
not represent a net contributor to atmospheric CO,,2,, concentrations.
As such, emissions according to this methodology are arealso
differentiated into two types:

  - '**indirect**' or '**Scope 3**' emissions represent those greenhouse
    gases emitted in association with stages in the fuel production
    chain such as raw material extraction and fuel delivery, and
    therefore considered to 'embodied' within the fuel.

<!-- end list -->

  - **Emissions which are 'outside of scopes'** are equivalent to the
    CO,,2,, absorbed from the atmosphere during growth of the biomass

### Model data

Emissions factors relating to the following calculation requirements are
available for all fuel types:

  - *indirect emissions by mass*: Scope 3 emissions on the basis of fuel
    mass
  - *indirect emissions by energy*: Scope 3 emissions on the basis of
    energy consumed
  - *non-scope / biogenic emissions by mass*: Biogenic emissions on the
    basis of fuel mass
  - *non-scope / biogenic emissions by energy*: Biogenic emissions on
    the basis of energy consumed

### Similar methodologies

The DEFRA methodologies for the stationary combustion of conventional
fuels are available on the basis of fuel
[mass](Mass_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA),
[volume](Volume_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) or [energy
yield](Energy_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA).

-----

## How to use this category

### Choosing a specific activity type

To use this methodology, specify the fuel type using the ***fuel***
drill down choice.

### Activity data required

Since emisisons according to this methodology are directly proportionate
to fuel quantity, the quantity of fuel used must be specified using
either the ***mass*** or ***energy*** profile item values.

### Results and calculation

AMEE returns the quantity of greenhouse gas emissions associated with
the quantity of fuel specified. The following discrete **amounts** are
returned:

  - ***indirectCO2e***: indirect CO,,2,,e emissions
  - ***bioCO2***: biogenic CO,,2,, emissions

Users should note that **all quantities** (including the separated
CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions) are expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
effect and the emissions quantity.

-----
