The swiss centre for life cycle inventories ([//ecoinvent
Centre//](http://www.ecoinvent.org/)) produces one of the worlds leading
international databases on Life Cycle Inventory (LCI) data. Created in
1997, it is a competence centre of the *Swiss Federal Institute of
Technology* [Zürich](http://www.ethz.ch/index_EN) and
[Lausanne](http://www.epfl.ch/), the [Paul Scherrer
Institute](http://www.psi.ch/index_e.shtml), the [Swiss Federal
Laboratories for Materials Testing and Research](http://www.empa.ch/),
and the [Swiss Federal Research Station Agroscope
Reckenholz-Tänikon](http://www.agroscope.admin.ch/aktuell/index.html?lang=de).

The core product of the *ecoinvent Centre* is the [//ecoinvent
database//](http://www.ecoinvent.org/database/) and is compiled from
high quality LCI datasets, internationally renowned research institutes,
industry data, and LCA consultants. It contains more than 4000 LCI
datasets covering the areas of agriculture, energy supply, transport,
biofuels and biomaterials, bulk and speciality chemicals, construction
materials, packaging materials, basic and precious metals, metals
processing, ICT and electronics as well as waste treatment.

The *ecoinvent database* (currently at version 2.2) offers
comprehensive, science-based life cycle assessment, management data and
services with an international scope.

*Further information on Life Cycle Assessment can be found
[here](Life_Cycle_Assessment)*.

-----

## Ecoinvent Data

*Ecoinvent* data is expressed using [elementary
flows](Ecoinvent_Elementary_flows), [elementary flow
groups](Ecoinvent_Elementary_flow_groups), and [process level
data](Ecoinvent_process_data).

Further information can be found by following each link to their
respective AMEEdiscover page or you can access *ecoinvent* data simply
by entering a word or words of interest in the search box at the top of
AMEEdiscover.

If using the AMEE API, all *ecoinvent* datasets can be accessed in the
[Ecospold](EcoSpold) data format. Ecospold is compatible with all major
LCA and eco-design software tools.

AMEE provides the entire *ecoinvent database v2.2*, accessible using the
AMEE API or AMEEdiscover.

-----

**Ecoinvent in AMEE is a proprietary dataset and is accessed under
subscription. To subscribe, contact sales@amee.com.**
