**Mass based stationary combustion of fuels. Calculates direct, indirect
and life cycle carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,), methane (CH,,4,,), nitrous
oxide (N,,2,,O) and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO,,2,,e) emissions
associated with fuel combustion on the basis of mass combusted.**

## Summary

This methodology represents greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
stationary combustion of fuels as measured on the basis of *fuel mass*.
The data and calculation methodology originates from the UK government
department DEFRA, as published in their most recent [greenhouse gas
(GHG) conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting)
documentation.

-----

## The methodology

The emissions calculation methodology is based upon emissions factors
which relate a mass-based quantity of fuel, with its associated quantity
of greenhouse gas emissions. These values vary, depending on factors
such as the concentration of carbon and moisture within each fuel type.

## Model data

Each fuel type is represented by six distinct emissions factors, which
differentiate greenhouse gas emissions into the following types:

  - '*direct CO,,2,, emissions*': carbon dioxide emissions produced
    *during* fuel combustion
  - '*direct CH,,4,, emissions*': methane emissions produced *during*
    fuel combustion
  - '*direct N,,2,,O emissions*': nitrous oxide emissions produced
    *during* fuel combustion
  - '*total direct emissions*': sum of all direct emissions, i.e.
    CO,,2,, + CH,,4,, + N,,2,,O
  - '*indirect emissions*': emissions associated with stages in the fuel
    production chain such as raw material extraction and fuel delivery
  - '*life cycle emissions*': the total of direct and indirect emissions

## Activity data required

Calculations are based on the amount of **mass** used during combustion
of the chosen type of **fuel**.

## Calculation and result

The following quantities are calculated on the basis of the amount of
mass combusted and associated emission factors: **CO,,2,,**,
**CH,,4,,**, **N,,2,,O**, **total direct CO,,2,,e**, **full life cycle
CO,,2,,e**.

Users should note that **all quantities** (including the separated
CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions) are expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, that would exert the same atmospheric warming effect
and the emissions quantity.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other DEFRA methodologies are available for fuel combustion with
[energy](Energy_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) and
[volume](Volume_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) based calculations.

Fuel properties, such as density and calorific values, can be found
[here](Fuel_properties_by_DEFRA).

-----

## Notes

### Renewable Fuel Considerations

Separate Emission factors are provided for diesel, petrol, a
diesel+biodiesel blend (= 4.2% by unit mass, 4.0% by unit volume, 3.7%
by unit energy), and a petrol+bioethanol blend (= 3.1% by unit mass,
2.9% by unit volume, 1.9% by unit energy). Blended fuel emission factors
are a weighted average of those respective fuels provided at UK public
refuelling stations as a proportion of the total supply. These estimates
have been made based on the most recently available reports on the
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO).

-----
