The US Environmental Protection Agency is a US government agency
assigned with protecting the natural environment and safeguarding human
health. The EPA publishes data in a wide variety of greenhouse gas
related contexts including emissions factors and calculation
methodologies.

In particular, the EPA categorizes industrial greenhouse gas producing
activities into a series of 'subparts' for the purpose of mandatory
emissions reporting. Information on the specific reporting requirements
of each as well as links to the technical recommendations for estimating
emissions can be found
[here](http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/subpart.html)
(although most of the technical documentation is
[archived](http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/archived/ghg_tsd.html)
in one location). These guidelines recommend a variety of data sources
and calculation methodologies for making emissions estimates, including
most notably the [IPCC National Greenhouse Gas Inventories
Programme](IPCC) among others.

## AMEE categories supporting EPA guidelines

The AMEE categories displayed in the "Pages in this Standard" tab
provide data and calculation methodologies which are specified and
recommended in the EPA's mandatory reporting technical documentation.
These categories represent a number of different sources including the
[IPCC-NGGIP](IPCC), the WRI [Greenhouse Gas
Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol), the Cement Sustainability Initiative
(CSI), the International Aluminium Institute (IAI) and the International
Council of Forests and Paper Associations (ICFPA).

These categories are supportive of the EPA mandatory ruling
[advice](http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/archived/ghg_tsd.html)
current as of 1st June 2010.
