**Managed soils methodology, synthetic and organic fertilizer
applications. Calculates nitrous oxide emissions (N,,2,,O and CO,,2,,e)
based on the quantity of nitrogen applied. Scenarios include synthetic
and organic (e.g. manure, compost, sewage) fertilizers. Globally
applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O) emissions
associated with the **application of synthetic and organic nitrogen to
managed soils**. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from
the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in *[Volume 4, Chapter 11 - N2O Emissions
from Managed Soils, and CO2 Emissions from Lime and Urea
Application](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_11_Ch11_N2O&CO2.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) is produced naturally in soils through the
processes of nitrification and denitrification. Nitrification is the
aerobic (microbially-mediated) oxidation of ammonia to nitrate, and
denitrification is the anaerobic microbial reduction of nitrate to
nitrogen gas (N,,2,,). N,,2,,O is a gaseous intermediate in the reaction
sequence of denitrification and a by-product of nitrification. One of
the main controlling factors in this reaction is the availability of
inorganic nitrogen in the soil. Human-attributable N,,2,,O emissions
therefore arise where net nitrogen (N) additions are made to managed
soils in the form of synthetic or organic fertilizers, manure, crop
residues, or sewage sludge, all of which contain forms of nitrogen. This
methodology describes N,,2,,O emissions associated with the application
of N to managed soils via the organic and synthetic fertilizers.

Both *direct* and *indirect* emission pathways of fertilizer-N (i.e.
fertilizer-associated nitrogen) are represented in the methodology.
Direct N,,2,,O-N (nitrous oxide associated nitrogen) production is
calculated on the basis of conversion factors which describe the rate at
which N,,2,,O-N is produced in relation to the quantity of fertilizer-N
added to the soil. Indirect emissions occur through volatilisation
and/or leaching of fertilizer-N from the soil. These effects are each
represented by (1) a factor describing the typical fraction of
fertilizer-N which is volatilised/leached; and (2) a factor describing
the rate at which this N is converted into N,,2,,O-N.

The total production of N,,2,,O-N attributable to a particular quantity
of fertilizer-N is calculated by adding together all direct and indirect
quantities. This is then converted into an N,,2,,O emission quantity on
the basis of the relative molecular masses of N,,2,,O and N.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach.

### Model data

Conversion factors for 5 fertilizer types are provided within this
methodology: *synthetic fertilizer* and 4 types of *organic* fertilizer
(e.g., *compost*, *manure*, *sewage*). Each fertilizer type is
represented by a **general direct N,,2,,O-N conversion rate** (kg / kg),
as well as an **alternative direct conversion factor** representing the
specific context of rice cultivation. Also included for each scenario
are the common factors for indirect (volatilised/leached) N conversion
rates.

In addition, this methodology uses two general constants for deriving
emissions quantities from N,,2,,O-N:

  - *molecular mass ratio of N,,2,,O and N*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O-N quantity into N,,2,,O (44/28)

<!-- end list -->

  - *global warming potential of N,,2,,O*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O emissions quantity into
    **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
    quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
    effect.

### Activity data required

N,,2,,O emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of
fertilizer-N** added, which therefore needs to be specified in order to
make an emissions calculation. Indirect emissions associated with
leaching can be incorporated optionally, if appropriate to the scenario
under consideration.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to the specified quanity of fertilizer-N added to managed
soils.

The methodology calculates two emissions quantities: (1) the
**absolute** quantity of N,,2,,O; and (2) N,,2,,O emissions expressed in
terms of **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)**.

-----

## Additional information

### Nomenclature

Following [IPCC](IPCC) advice, the term *manure* is used collectively to
include both dung and urine (i.e., the solids and the liquids) produced
by livestock.

-----

## Related methodologies

A number of other methodologies focus on emissions from managed soils.
These include those arising from the addition of [urine and
dung](Animal_associated_soil_N2O_emissions),
[urea](Soil_urea_application) and [carbonates/lime](Soil_liming), as
well as [drained/managed organic
soils](N2O_emissions_from_managed_organic_soils).
