The AMEE category /transport/car contains data associated with the
greenhouse gas emissions of car travel. Both generic and specific
datasets and methodologies are available in the following subcategories.

## Generic car transport

The AMEE category [Generic car transport](Generic_car_transport)
contains data associated with the greenhouse gas emissions of
representative car types, e.g. 'small, diesel' or 'large, petrol' cars,
sourced from the [EPA](http://www.epa.gov/) in the US, and
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm),
and the [VCA](http://www.vca.gov.uk/) in the UK. This category measures
CO,,2,, emissions only, and should be considered to represent a useful
first point of entry to car-related emissions. This category is used by
the UK Goverment [Act On
CO,,2,,](http://actonco2.direct.gov.uk/actonco2/home.html) website.

## Generic car transport - DEFRA

The AMEE [DEFRA Generic car transport](Generic_car_transport_Defra)
category contains the most recently published
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm)
data on greenhouse gas emissions associated with representative car
types in UK. The methodology uses distance-based, *per passenger*
emissions factors, requiring the user to specify the distance travelled.
This category includes CO,,2,,, CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions as part of
each calculation.

## Generic car transport - IPCC

The category [IPCC car transport](Generic_car_transport_IPCC) contains
data on car-associated emissions sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/).
This category contains data and methodologies for European and US
contexts and calclulates emissions on per vehicle/per passenger basis,
using fuel consumption or a combination of fuel consumption, fuel
efficiency and distance.

## Generic car transport - GHG Protocol

The category [GHGP car transport](Generic_car_transport_GHGP) contains
data on car-associated emissions sourced from the latest World Resources
Institute [Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(GHGP)](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/about-ghgp) documentation. This
category includes emissions methodologies for travel in several
geographic contexts, and includes both *per vehicle* and *per passenger*
functionality.

## Specific car transport

The AMEE category [Specific car transport](Specific_car_transport)
contains data associated with the greenhouse gas emissions of specific
models of motor vehicle sold in the UK and US.

## Car transport by band

The AMEE category [Car transport by band](Car_transport_by_band)
contains data associated with the greenhouse gas emissions of generic
size categories of motor vehicles used in the Republic of Ireland.
