**Mineral industry methodology, general carbonate calcination.
Calculates carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,) emissions based on the quantities
and calcination fractions of calcite, magnesite, dolomite, siderite,
ankerite, rhodochrosite and soda ash. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **carbon dioxide** (CO,,2,,) emissions
associated with the **calcination of carbonate minerals**. The data and
calculation methodology is sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published
in *[Volume 3, Chapter 2 - Mineral Industry
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/3_Volume3/V3_2_Ch2_Mineral_Industry.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.
This methodology represents the IPCC ***tier 3*** approach.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Limestone (CaCO,,3,,) and dolomite (CaMg(CO,,3,,),,2,,) are basic raw
materials having commercial applications in a number of industries. The
heating of carbonate minerals to high temperatures ('calcining')
produces metallic oxides as well as CO,,2,, emissions. This methodology
calculates CO,,2,, emissions from the general consumption (through
calcination) of carbonate minerals.

The methodology represents a *mass-balance* approach which considers the
quantities of carbon (C) which enter the calcination process from *all*
carbonate inputs and attributes any C which is unaccounted for on
completion of the calcination process to CO,,2,, emissions. The total
quantity of each carbonate input fully calcined (and therefore emitted
as CO,,2,,) is determined on the basis of the **input quantity** (i.e.
mass) and the **fraction calcination achieved** (i.e. a decimal
fraction, 0-1). This calcined quantity in then converted into it's
corresponding CO,,2,, quantity on the basis of conversion factors which
represent the *stoichiometry* of the chemical processes, i.e. the known
molecular mass ratio of the reactant carbonate material and the product
CO,,2,,.

Carbonate inputs of **calcite** (or it's polymorph, **aragonite**),
**magnesite**, **dolomite**, **siderite**, **ankerite**,
**rhodochrosite**, and **soda ash** can be itemised as part of any
calculation.

### Model data

CO,,2,, conversion factors (**stoichiometric ratios**) for all carbonate
types are sourced from the IPCC and can be found
[here](Stoichiometries_ratios).

### Activity data required

Greenhouse gas emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity**
(i.e. mass) of carbonates consumed. In addition, the **fraction
calcination achieved** for each individual carbonate input can be
specified (100% calcination is assumed otherwise).

### Calculation and results

**CO,,2,,** emissions are calculated by multiplying each carbonate input
by it's respective calcination fraction and CO,,2,, conversion factor
(stoichiometric ratio).

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to all specified quantities of carbonate calcined.

-----

## Related methodologies

Several other [IPCC](IPCC) methodologies are available which represent
carbonate calcination. These include the IPCC *[tier 1 and
tier 2](Generic_carbonate_consumption)* methodologies which correspond
to this methodology, as well as methodologies specific to [soda ash
consumption](Aluminium_soda_ash), as well as
[glass](Glass_production_carbonate_methodology) and
[cement](IPCC_cement_production_based_on_carbonate_inputs) production.
