**Metal industry methodology, direct reduced iron. Calculates carbon
dioxide (CO,,2,,), methane (CH,,4,,) and CO,,2,,e emissions based on the
quantities of materials consumed and produced. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **carbon dioxide** (CO,,2,,) and **methane**
(CH,,4,,) emissions associated with the production of **direct reduced
iron**. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from the
[Greenhouse Gas Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) (GHGP) worksheet tool
*[CO2 emissions from the production of iron and steel,
version 2.0](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/tools/Iron%20and%20Steel.xls)*,
which is ultimately based on the methodologies described in *[Volume 3,
Chapter 4 - Metal Industry
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/3_Volume3/V3_4_Ch4_Metal_Industry.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Direct reduced iron (DRI) is produced from the direct reduction of iron
ores in solid form (at temperatures of \<1000 Â°C) by reducing gases
typically produced from natural gas or coal. The eventual oxidation of
the carbon-bearing feedstocks (gas, coal) produces CO,,2,, and CH,,4,,.

This methodology enables the calculation of DRI-associated CO,,2,,
emissions based upon a mass balance approach that accounts for the
carbon inputs and outputs to the reduction process. All carbon which
enters the process is assumed to be completely oxidised, adn therefore
by considering the quantities and carbon contents of natural gas, coke
breeze and metallurgical coke consumed, the quantity of CO,,2,, emitted
can be estimated.

CH,,4,, emissions are based on an emissions factor which describes the
rate at which CH,,4,, is emitted per unit quantity of DRI produced.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 2* approach where default
carbon content data is used for carbon-bearing feedstocks and products,
but *Tier 3* where these are based on facility-specfic data.

### Model data

This methodology is based on a mass-balance of process inputs and
outputs, and depends upon quantities and carbon concentrations for each.
Default carbon content data is provided for natural gas for cases where
facility-specific data is not available. CH,,4,, emissions also require
the quantity of DRI produced to be specified. A default emissions factor
for CH,,4,, is available but can be specified if facility- or
country-specific data is available.

### Activity data required

CO,,2,, emissions require quantities and carbon concentrations of
feedstock in order to calculate. CH,,4,, emissions require the quantity
of DRI produced to be specified, and a facility- or country-specific
emissions factor for CH,,4,, can be provided if available.

### Calculation and results

**CO,,2,,** emissions are calculated by the mass-balance of the
specified input/output activity data. **CH,,4,,** emissions are
calculated by multiplying the quantity of DRI specified by the specified
emissions factor. **CO,,2,,e** emissions are also calculated by
converting absolute emissions using the appropriate [global warming
potentials](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials).

-----

## Related methodologies

If feedstock and by-product data is unavailable, a [simpler
methodology](Iron_and_steel_generic_processes) based solely on
quantities of DRI produced is also available.

IPCC methodologies for other iron and steel-associated process emissions
are also available, including [tier 1](Iron_and_steel_generic_processes)
and [tier 2/3](Iron_and_Steel) methodologies for iron and steel
production, [sinter](Iron_and_Steel_sinter) and
[coke](Iron_and_Steel_coke) production.
