**Paper industry methodology, biomass. Calculates methane (CH,,4,,),
nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) and CO,,2,,e emissions associated with the
combustion of biomass fuels. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents methane (CH,,4,,), nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O)
emissions associated with the combustion of biomass as a source of
energy. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from the sourced
from the guidelines published by the International Council of Forest and
Paper Associations
([ICFPA](http://www.wbcsd.org/web/projects/forestry/Pulp-and-Paper-Tool-Guidance.pdf)).

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The burning of biomass materials produces *biogenic* CO,,2,,. This means
that the CO,,2,, released was only removed from the atmosphere
relatively recently, during the growth of the biomass. This is usually
considered neutral with respect to its effects on atmoshperic carbon
concentrations and warming, since it is equivalent to the same biomass
decaying under natural conditions.

However, depending on the combustion technology employed, CH,,4,, and
N,,2,,O may also be produced during burning. These are not products of
natural biological decay process and, since they are more effective
greenhouse gases than CO,,2,,, can be considered to be a net
anthropogenic contributor to atmospheric warming. This methodology
enables the calculation of CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions assocaited with
biomass combustion.

The methodology is based upon emissions factors which describe the rate
at which emissions are produced in relation to the quantity of energy
consumed. Multiplying a quantity of energy by the appropriate factors
results in an estimate ffor the assocaited emissions.

### Model data

The emissions intensity of biomass varies according to the particular
type of combustion technology employed. Therefore, 15 combustion
scenarios are represented, differentiated by the type of bioler and
other descriptive criteria. Each is, in-turn, represented by
characteristic emissions factors for CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O.

### Activity data required

Emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of energy
consumed**, which therefore must be provided in order to calculate.

The CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions factors can be optionally specified if
such data is available, otherwise the methodology defaults are used.

### Calculation and results

Emissions are calculated by simply multiplying the specified quantity of
energy consumed by the appropriate emissions factors. These emissions
represent those attributable to the specified quantity of energy
consumed.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other available methodologies relating to the paper industry relate to
[pulping liquors](Pulping_liquor_consumption) and [process
carbonates](Pulp_and_Paper_Direct_Emissions).
