**Fugitive emissions methodology, underground mining. Calculates methane
(CH,,4,,) emissions based on the quantity of coal produced. Globally
applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **methane** (CH,,4,,) emissions associated
with the **surface mining of coal**. The data and calculation
methodology are sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in
*[Volume 2, Chapter 4 - Fugitive
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/2_Volume2/V2_4_Ch4_Fugitive_Emissions.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Fugitive emissions of greenhouse gases can arise during underground coal
mining through several pathways:

  - *Mining emissions*: CH,,4,, emissions result from the liberation of
    gases during the breakage of coal and surrounding strata during
    mining operations

<!-- end list -->

  - *Post-mining emissions*: CH,,4,, is additionally released from coal
    during processing and transportation

<!-- end list -->

  - *Low temperature oxidation*: CO,,2,, is produced by the oxidation of
    coal carbon (C) on exposure to oxygen

<!-- end list -->

  - *Uncontrolled oxidation*: CO,,2,, is produced during the
    uncontrolled burning of coal. This may occur as a consequence of the
    trapping of heat produced by low temperature oxidation.

Only the first two sources of emissions are considered in this
methodology: low temperature oxidation is typically insignificant
(especially where rehabilitation practices are employed); uncontrolled
oxidation is sometimes significant but extremely difficult to quantify.

The methodology considers the three emissions components in order to
calculate net annual emissions:

  - CH,,4,,,,,total,, (kg) = CH,,4,,,,,mining,, +
    CH,,4,,,,,post-mining,, - CH,,4,,,,,recovered,,

**Emissions associated with mining operations:** This methodology
calculates mining-associated CH,,4,, emissions based on emissions
factors which describe the rate at which CH,,4,, is released in relation
to the quantity of coal produced (in terms of mass, i.e. tonnes). By
multiplying these rates (e.g. m^^3^^ per tonne) by the annual quantity
of coal produced (e.g. tonne per year), an estimate of the annual
methane emissions - by volume (i.e. m^^3^^ per year) - is made.

**Emissions associated with the post-mining phase:** This methodology
provides two ways of calculating post-mining emissions. **(1)** As with
mining-phase emissions (see above), an emissions factor is available
which describes the rate at which post-mining CH,,4,, is released in
relation to the quantity of coal produced. **(2)** Alternatively, a more
accurate post-mining emissions factor can be derived on the basis of the
*in situ* gas content of the coal, since a fixed proportion of this is
estimated to be emitted subsequent to extraction. The precise precise
fraction of this in situ CH,,4,, which is released differs depending on
whether pre-drainage of mines is practised.

**Methane recovery:** Where methane recovery/capture is practised, this
is deducted from the emissions calculation.

All emissions quantities are calculated on a volumetric basis and
converted to mass quantities using the standard value for CH,,4,,
density provided by the IPCC guidelines.

### Model data

The extent to which CH,,4,, is released depends on the depth of the
mine. Emissions factors are provided for three depth ranges (*\<200 m*,
*200-400 m*, *\>400 m*). Each depth range is represented by:

  - A *mining* phase emissions factor (m^^3^^ per tonne)

<!-- end list -->

  - A *post-mining* phase emission factor (m^^3^^ per tonne)

The methodology also uses several additional values for making the final
emissions calculations

  - An *in situ gas factor* which represents the proportion of the in
    situ gas which is release in the post-mining phase. This factor
    depends in whether pre-draining of the mine is practised
    (pre-drainage, 30%; no pre-drainage, 10%)

<!-- end list -->

  - A standard value for the *density of CH,,4,,* (0.67 tonnes per
    m^^3^^) which enables the conversion of volumetric to mass-based
    emissions

<!-- end list -->

  - The *global warming potential of CH,,4,,* which enables the
    conversion of absolute CH,,4,, emissions into a
    [CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) quantity -
    i.e. the quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric
    warming effect

### Activity data required

Greenhouse gas emissions are directly proportionate to the **mass** of
coal produced annually, which therefore must be provided in order to
calculate.

The specification of the **in situ gas content** of the mined coal is
optional but may result in a more accurate estimate of post-mining
emissions.

Also optional is the specification of a **volume of recovered methane**

### Calculation and results

Both mining and post-mining CH,,4,, emissions are calculated and
aggregated. Any recovered CH,,4,, is then subtracted from this total.

Two emissions quantities are ultimately provided, representing:
**CH,,4,,** and **CO,,2,,e** emissions. All emissions calculated by this
methodology represent those attributable to the specified annual
quantity of coal production, minus any CH,,4,, which is recovered.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other IPCC methodologies which focus on mining-associated fugitive
emissions scenarios are available, covering [surface
mining](Surface_mining), abandoned underground mines
([tier 1](Generic_abandoned_mines) and
[tier 2](User_defined_abandoned_mines)) and [methane
flaring](Methane_flaring).

Where recovered methane is burned for energy production, flared, or fed
into a gas distribution system, the IPCC methodologies for [stationary
fuel combustion](Stationary_Combustion), [methane
flaring](Methane_flaring) and [oil and gas
processing](Oil_and_gas_fugitive_emissions) may be of interest.
