**Life cycle methodology, timber. Calculates embodied energy,
fossil-derived carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,), biogenic CO,,2,, and CO,,2,,e
emissions based on the quantity of timber used. Scenarios include
plywood, particleboard, laminated and sawn timbers. Mixed geographical
scopes.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **embodied energy**, **fossil-derived carbon
dioxide (CO,,2,,)**, **biogenic CO,,2,,** and **CO,,2,,e emissions**
associated with the use of **timber**. The data and calculation
methodology is sourced from the [Inventory of Carbon & Energy (ICE),
version 2.0](http://people.bath.ac.uk/cj219/) life cycle dataset,
produced in conjunction with the University of Bath.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The methodology is based on factors which describe the quantities of
energy and fossil-derived CO,,2,, which are 'embodied' within unit
quantities of timber. By multiplying a quantity of timber by these
factors, an estimate of the embodied energy and emissions associated
with that quantity can be calculated.

In addition, this methodology provides factors for the **biogenic**
CO,,2,, emissions which are associated with quantities of timber. These
emissions represent CO,,2,, which is derived from the combustion of
*recently produced* organic material (e.g. biogas and biofuels, timber
off-cuts). These emissions are differentiated from fossil-associated
CO,,2,, emissions (e.g. from coal, natural gas, oil) because they
represent the return of CO,,2,, to the atmosphere which was only
recently removed through biological processes (i.e. photosynthesis). In
most cases, these emissions are not considered to represent a net
addition of CO,,2,, into the atmosphere and therefore not regarded as a
contributor to atmospheric warming.

This methodology permits users to choose whether biogenic CO,,2,,
emissions are neutral or otherwise.

### Model data

Embodied energy and emissions vary between different types of timber.
This methodology represents 11 different types of timber (e.g.
*Hardboard*, *Laminated veneer lumber*) with each type represented by
four data values:

  - *embodied energy per unit mass* (MJ/kg)
  - *embodied fossil CO,,2,, per unit mass* (kg/kg)
  - *embodied biogenic CO,,2,, per unit mass* (kg/kg)
  - *embodied CO,,2,,e per unit mass* (kg/kg)

In addition, each material is described by a **life cycle analysis
boundary**, indicating the stages in the material life cycle which are
represented by the energy and CO2 factors, and in most cases **author
notes** on the sourcing of the data.

### Activity data required

Embodied energy and emissions are directly proportionate to the **mass
of timber used**, which therefore must be available in order to
calculate.

### Calculation and results

Embodied energy and emissions are calculated by multiplying the
specified quantity of timber used by the available factors. Four values
are returned representing the embodied **energy**, as well as **fossil
CO,,2,,**, **biogenic CO,,2,,** and **CO,,2,,e** emissions attributable
to the specified quantity of timber.

**Note:** CO,,2,,e quantities incorporate fossil-CO,,2,, as well as the
effects of other greenhouse gases, but **do not** include biogenic
CO,,2,, emissions.

-----

## Related methodologies

Several other methodologies sourced from the ICE database are also
available. The bulk of the ICE database represents several hundred
distinct materials, embodied emissions and energy of which can be
calculated on the basis of [mass](ICE_v2_by_mass) or
[area](ICE_v2_by_area).

In addition, there exist several methodologies which provide data and
calculations specific to particular types of materials:
[concrete](ICE_v2_concrete) and [windows](ICE_v2_windows).

Details of the [sources of data](ICE_v2_references) for the ICE database
are also available.
