**Heavy goods vehicle emissions methodology. Calculates direct carbon
dioxide (CO,,2,,) emissions associated with distance travelled. Choices
include vehicle type, size and loading. United Kingdom.**

## Summary

This methodology represents greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
heavy goods road transport in the UK. The data and calculation
methodology is based on those provided in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol
worksheet *GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources* (version
2.2), published in June 2011.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The emissions methodology is based upon emissions factors which describe
the rate at which greenhouse gas emissions are produced during
road-based travel in relation to **distance** travelled. These emissions
factors represent emissions associated with *entire vehicles* (e.g.
rigid or articulated lorries/trucks), which can be contrasted with
similar transport-related emissions factors which describe emissions on
the basis of *[individual
passengers](Passenger_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol)* or *[units
of freight](Freight_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol)*. Emissions
for individual passengers can nevertheless be derived by 'sharing'
vehicular emissions across all vehicle occupants, if the occupancy of
the vehicle is known.

Emissions - expressed in terms of mass (e.g. kg) - are calculated by
multiplying these rates (mass emitted per distance; e.g. kg CO2 per km)
by a distance (e.g km) travelled.

### Model data

The rate at which heavy goods road transportation produces greenhouse
gas emissions varies with the type of vehicle, depending on factors such
as the type of fuel used (e.g. gasoline/petrol, diesel), and vehicle the
fuel efficiency (i.e. the distance acheived per unit of fuel consumed)
which may be related to, amongst other things, vehicle size and loading.
Therefore, emissions factors for a broad range of generalised heavy
goods road transport scenarios are provided.

A number of specific types of road transport are represented and are
differentiated by vehicle type (i.e. rigid, articulated), size (gross
vehicle weight) and percentage laden. For each vehicle represented, a
specific CO,,2,, emissions factor is used to calculate CO,,2,, emissions
according to distance travelled.

### Activity data required

According to this methodology, greenhouse gas emissions are directly
proportional to the distance travelled, which therefore must be
specified in order to make an emissions calculation.

If multiple passengers are under consideration, this number can be
specified, in which case vehicle emissions are shared amongst all
passengers.

### Calculation and result

The returned quantities for this methodology represent CO,,2,, emissions
associated with the activity data (distance) specified.

-----

### Similar methodologies

Other Greenhouse Gas Protocol transport methodologies are available
representing general [transport
fuel](Transport_fuels_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) consumption, fuels
consumed in [specific transport
contexts](Transport_fuels_with_context_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol),
[freight transport](Freight_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol),
[passenger/public
transport](Passenger_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol), [heavy
goods](UK_heavy_goods_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol)
transportation in the UK, and general road transportation in the
[US](US_road_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) and [other
regions](Other_regional_road_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol).

-----

## Notes

For each type of vehicle, two default percentage laden values are given.
These two values are sourced from different versions of the GHGP
worksheets. Users are advised to use the value from the most recent
update.
