The AMEE category */transport/motorcycle* contains data and
methodologies for calculating greenhouse gas emissions associated with
motorcycle transport. The category currently contains data on
representative motorcycle types from two sources, as follows:

## Generic car transport - DEFRA

The AMEE [DEFRA Generic motorcycle transport](Motorcycle_generic_Defra)
category contains the most recently published
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm)
data on greenhouse gas emissions associated with representative
motorcycle types in UK. The methodology uses distance-based emissions
factors, requiring the user to specify the distance travelled. This
category includes CO,,2,,, CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions as part of each
calculation.

## Generic car transport - IPCC

The category [IPCC motorcycle
transport](Generic_motorcycle_transport_IPCC) contains data on
motorcycle-associated emissions sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/).
This category contains data and methodologies for European and US
contexts and calclulates emissions on per vehicle/per passenger basis,
using fuel consumption or a combination of fuel consumption, fuel
efficiency and distance.

## Generic car transport - GHG Protocol

The category [GHGP motorcycle transport](Generic_motorcycle_GHGP)
contains data on motorcycle-associated emissions sourced from the latest
World Resources Institute [Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(GHGP)](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/about-ghgp) documentation. This
category includes emissions methodologies for travel in several
geographic contexts, on the basis of distance travelled.
