The AMEE category at
business/processes/production/lime/production/titaniumdioxide/production
provides a methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions
associated with titanium dioxide production. The methodology is based
upon generic emissions factors for CO,,2,, emissions per quantity of
titanium oxide produced. This methodology represents the *Tier 1*
approach described by the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories
([NGGIP](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol3.html)). If
users have more specific data on the types and and properties of lime
produced, they may want to use the
*[Tier 2](Titanium_dioxide_production_feedstock_methodology)*
methodology.

To use this category, select the type of titanium dioxide using the
*product* drill choice.

Next, specify the quantity of titanium dioxide produced using the
***mass*** profile item value. The returned amount represents CO,,2,,
emissions associated with this quantity, based on the default emissions
factor for the type specified.

Users can override the default emissions factor and specify their own
quantity for CO,,2,, emissions *per quantity of titanium dioxide
produced* if facility-specific data are available. To set this value,
use the ***massCO2PerMass*** profile item value. Users should note that,
following IPCC methodology, the 'titanium slag' drill choice does not
include a default emissions factor and therefore users of this option
*must* specify their own using the ***massCO2PerMass*** profile item
value.
