The Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
([DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk)) is the UK Government department
responsible for policy and regulations on the environment, food and
rural affairs. Until 2008 this included climate change policy, but this
is now covered by the new Department of Energy and Climate Change
([DECC](http://www.decc.gov.uk)). DECC was created in October 2008 to
bring together energy policy (previously with BERR) and climate change
mitigation policy (previously with DEFRA). DECC's objectives include
reducing greenhouse gas emissions and ensuring a secure energy supply to
the UK.

## Data

DECC publish new emission factors and
[methodologies](Primary_Data_and_Methodologies_Represented_in_AMEE) each
year, the latest update was in July 2011. This is the more recent DECC
data available in AMEE. AMEE continually monitor these sources to
maintain currency and accuracy.

The greenhouse gas conversion factors provided by DECC and AMEE should
be used alongside published DECC guidance on how to measure and report
greenhouse gas emissions. DECC data cover a wide range of sectors, but
is concentrated towards methodologies for the UK individual or small
UK-based companies. The DECC data sets include international electricity
factors, UK home appliances, water and waste treatment, refrigeration,
fuel combustion, as well as some price based supply chain emission
information.

Some of the categories in the list below contain data on carbon dioxide
plus other greenhouse gas emissions. The majority calculate
contributions from nitrous oxide and methane as well as carbon dioxide.
Some also contain data for hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and
sulphur hexafluoride. When AMEE calculates complete greenhouse gas
emissions, it uses global warming potentials to return a value of
CO,,2,,e. This is the equivalent amount of carbon dioxide that would
have the same atmospheric effect.

There are a number of life-cycle categories in AMEE that are sourced
from DECC data. The user must be aware that these are not comparable to
'normal' categories. Full life-cycle analyses contain contributions to
the emissions from all stages of manufacture, production, use and
disposal. Generally categories will only address one of these areas. For
company reporting this is an important distinction because the results
given will be very different. The user must assess which sections of the
supply/use/disposal chain they are responsible for.

## Latest AMEE Update

The data in AMEE is based upon the latest DEFRA GHG Conversions Factors
worksheet published in July 2011.

## Categories

In the "Pages in this Standard" tab is a list of all categories in AMEE
that are sourced directly from DEFRA or DECC. DECC data is one of the
major sources for the UK sections of the GHGP, so there is a significant
overlap in data sourced from these two locations.
