**Chemical industry methodology, adipic acid. Calculates nitrous oxide
(N,,2,,O) emissions based on the quantity of adipic acid produced.
Scenarios include several abatement technologies and no abatement.
Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents ** nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O) emissions
associated with the production of **adipic acid**.

The data and calculation methodology is sourced from the [Greenhouse Gas
Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) (GHGP) worksheet tool *[N2O emissions
from the production of adipic acid,
version 2.0](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/tools/no2-adipic_2.0.xls)*,
which is ultimately based on the methodologies described in *[Volume 3,
Chapter 3 - Chemical Industry
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/3_Volume3/V3_3_Ch3_Chemical_Industry.pdf)*
of the *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Adipic acid is used in the manufacture of a large number of products
including synthetic fibres (particularly nylon), coatings, plastics,
urethane foams, elastomers and synthetic lubricants. It is produced by
the oxidation of a cyclohexanone/cyclohexanol mixture by nitric acid,
from which nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) is produced as a by-product.
Emissions of N,,2,,O are primarily dependent on the quantity of adipic
acid produced and the extent to which emissions abatement technologies
are employed.

This methodology enables the calculation of adipic acid-associated
N,,2,,O emissions on the basis of an emissions factor which represents
the rate at which N,,2,,O is emitted in relation to the quantity of
adipic acid produced. Multiplying a quantity of acid produced by these
emissions factors results in an estimate of the emissions associated
with that quantity.

In addition, the methodology can take into account the use of abatement
technologies. In this case the quantity of N,,2,,O emitted is adjusted
according to **(1)** the fraction of all emissions which are diverted
into abatement technologies; and **(2)** the efficiency of destruction
of the respective technologies.

If there is an assumption of no abatement technologies, this methodology
represents the IPCC *tier 1* approach. The specification of abatement
technologies represents the *tier 2* approach, while the use of facility
specific emissions factors represent the *tier 3* approach.

### Model data

This methodology assumes a default, base emissions factor of 0.3 kg
N,,2,,O emitted per kg of adipic acid produced (this is overridden in
the *tier 3* approach). This factor is adjusted when abatement
technologies are considered, the magnitude of the adjustment depending
on the type of technology employed. Four abatement scenarios are
represented in this methodology (e.g. *Thermal destruction*, *Catalytic
destruction*). Each abatement scenario is represented by default values
for:

  - the typical *utilization fraction* of the technology

<!-- end list -->

  - the *abatement efficiency* of the technology

These values can be specified on facility-specific basis if data is
available, however. In addition, the *global warming potential* of
N,,2,,O are also used in order to convert absolute emissions quantities
into [CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) quantities -
i.e. the quantities of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric
warming effect.

### Activity data required

N,,2,,O emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of adipic
acid produced** (i.e. mass), which therefore must be provided. In
addition, the methodology enables the specification of facility-specific
data for the **base N,,2,,O emissions factor**, the **abatement
utilization factor** and the **abatement destruction factor**.

### Calculation and results

**N,,2,,O** emissions are calculated by simply multiplying the specified
quantity by the base emissions factor, and scaling according to the
utilization and efficiency of any abatement technologies employed.

Two emissions quantities are ultimately provided: the absolute quantity
of **N,,2,,O** and the corresponding
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** quantity.
These emissions represent those attributable to the specified quantity
of adipic acid produced.
