The AMEE category /business/waste contains data and methodologies for
calculating greenhouse gas emissions associated with waste disposal. The
following subcategories are avaliable:

## Steady state landfill emissions

The AMEE category [/business/waste/steadyState](Waste_steady_state)
includes data for the emission of methane from landfill assuming that
emissions have acheived equilibrium with a constant waste deposition
rate. Users must specify the deposition rate and the time since waste
depositon began. User can additional specify several other parameters
which describe the conversion of waste into methane, with defaults
values available otherwise.

## Landfill emissions based on methane recovery

The AMEE category at
[/business/waste/recovery](Landfill_emissions_based_on_methane_recovery)
includes a methodology for the estimation of methane emissions from
landfill, based on the practice of of methane collection and associated
measures of collection efficiency and methane concentration. Users may
specify their own parameters or use GHGP defaults.

## Biological waste disposal methods

The AMEE category [/business/waste/bio](Biological_waste_treatment)
contains data and a methodology sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for
National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/5_Volume5/V5_4_Ch4_Bio_Treat.pdf)
for calculating greenhouse gas emissions from the biological treatment
of organic wastes. Emissions of both CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions are
covered in association with the waste treatment processes of composting
and anaerobic digestion.

## Waste combustion

The AMEE category
[/business/waste/combustion](Combustive_waste_treatment) contains data
and methodologies sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for National
Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/5_Volume5/V5_5_Ch5_IOB.pdf)
for calculating greenhouse gas emissions associated with the burning of
waste. Municipal and industrial contexts are represented together with
numerous burning technologies.

## Waste water

The AMEE category [/business/waste/water](Waste_water) contains data and
methodologies for calculating greenhouse gas emissions associated with
waste water, sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for National Greenhouse
Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/5_Volume5/V5_6_Ch6_Wastewater.pdf)
and the
[EPA](http://www.epa.gov/climatechange/emissions/archived/downloads/tsd/TSD%20wastewater_020409.pdf)
mandatory reporting guidelines. Both domestic and industrial contexts
are represented, with treated and untreated waste water emissions
covered.
