**This category is deprecated. The IPCC methodologies for European and
US car transport can be found [here](European_road_transport_by_IPCC),
[here](US_road_transport_with_alternative_fuels_by_IPCC) and
[here](US_road_transport_with_alternative_fuels_by_IPCC)**

This category contains data associated with car-travel in both European
and US contexts, sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for National
Greenhouse Gas Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/).

The data is organised into geographic subcategories ('europe', 'us') in
which vehicular emissions are calcuable according to fuel type and
emissions control standards, with estimates for CO,,2,, and CO,,2,,e
(i.e. CO,,2,,, CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O) available.

The IPCC methodology for greenhouse gas emissions associated with
['mobile
combustion'](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/2_Volume2/V2_3_Ch3_Mobile_Combustion.pdf)
recommend calculating CO,,2,, emissions on the basis of fuel consumed,
whereas those of CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O vary more directly with other
factors such as vehicle type, emissions control, frequency of cold
starts, and distance travelled. Therefore, these categories provide a
number of options for calculating car-associated greenhouse gas
emissions, depending on which combination of fuel consumption, fuel
efficiency and distance are specified.

It should be noted that the US-specific categories are similar to those
within the /transport/car/generic/ghgp subcategories, in that both are
ultimately derived from similar EPA datasets. The main difference is
that the IPCC methodology maintains the calculation of CO,,2,, by *fuel
quantity* and CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O by *distance* - as presented in the
original EPA dataset. In contrast, the GHG Protocol methodology uses
*typical mileage* data for each vehicle type in order to express
emissions for all gases on the basis of distance. In addition, the IPCC
data and methodology are organised according to vehicular emissions
control technology rather than vehicle age (although these are directly
related) and include emissions associated with vehicle 'cold starts' as
well as distance travelled.

See the following subcategories for further details:

  - [Europe](European_car_travel_IPCC)

<!-- end list -->

  - [United States](US_car_travel_IPCC)
