The AMEE category at [/transport/byFuel](Transport_fuel) includes data
for the mobile burning of a variety of fuels taken from parts of several
of the [Greenhouse Gas Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) worksheets.
The following data categories are available.

## By Fuel

The primary category ([/transport/byFuel](Transport_fuel)) contains data
on greenhouse gas emissions associated with numerous types of fuel when
burned in the context of transportation. Alternative emissions factors
are available for each fuel type, from sources including the
[IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/), the UK government agency
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/), and the US [Energy Information
Administration](http://www.eia.doe.gov/). Users have the option of
specifying fuel quantities in terms of energy, volume or mass.

## By fuel US

The category [/transport/byFuel/us](US_transport_fuel) contains data on
greenhouse gas emissions associated with numerous types of fuel for
mobile combustion (i.e. transportation) in the US, and is sourced from
the latest [Greenhouse Gas
Protocol](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools)
dataset. This category differs from the
[/transport/byFuel](Transport_fuel) category in that alternative
emissions factors for each fuel are available for different transport
contexts, e.g. 'agricultural equipment', 'passenger car', 'heavy goods
vehicle'. Although the carbon intensity of a given fuel (i.e. the CO2
emissions) remain similar across different contexts, variations in total
greenhouse gas emissions vary, reflecting inter-context differences in
the production of CH<sub>4</sub> and N<sub>2</sub>O. The category contains
functionality for calculating biofuel associated geenhouse gas emissions
separately from those associated with fossil fuels.

## By Fuel Other regions

The category [/transport/byFuel/other](Other_regional_transport_fuel)
contains similar data and functionality to the category
[/transport/byFuel/us](US_transport_fuel), but applies specifically to
contexts other than the US and UK.

## IPCC transport fuels

The AMEE category [/transport/byFuel/ipcc](IPCC_transport_fuels)
contains data and methodologies sourced from the IPCC [Guidelines for
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/)
for calculating emissions associated with fuel used in various
transportation contexts. These include, off-road vehicles, ocean-going
ships, and trains organised according to engine type and age.
