**Energy based stationary combustion of fuels. Calculates direct,
indirect and life cycle carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,), methane (CH,,4,,),
nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) and carbon dioxide equivalent (CO,,2,,e)
emissions associated with fuel combustion on the basis on energy
consumption.**

## Summary

This methodology represents greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
stationary combustion of fuels as measured on the basis of *energy
consumption*. The data and calculation methodology originates from the
UK government department DEFRA, as published in their most recent
[greenhouse gas (GHG) conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting)
documentation.

-----

## The methodology

The emissions calculation methodology is based upon emissions factors
which relate a quantity of energy yielded by the fuel (and consumed by
the user) with its associated quantity of greenhouse gas emissions.
These values vary, depending on factors such as the energy content
('heating' or 'calorific' value) of the particular type of fuel as well
as its typical concentration of carbon and moisture. The energy content
of the fuel can be expressed on either a 'net calorific' basis or a
'gross calorific' basis, the difference depending on whether the latent
heat of condensation of water vapour is recovered. Users should check
the calorific basis of their energy consumption in order to make
accurate emissions calculations.

## Model data

Each fuel type is represented by six distinct emissions factors, which
differentiate greenhouse gas emissions into the following types:

  - '*direct CO,,2,, emissions*': carbon dioxide emissions produced
    *during* fuel combustion
  - '*direct CH,,4,, emissions*': methane emissions produced *during*
    fuel combustion
  - '*direct N,,2,,O emissions*': nitrous oxide emissions produced
    *during* fuel combustion
  - '*total direct emissions*': sum of all direct emissions, i.e.
    CO,,2,, + CH,,4,, + N,,2,,O
  - '*indirect emissions*': emissions associated with stages in the fuel
    production chain such as raw material extraction and fuel delivery
  - '*life cycle emissions*': the total of direct and indirect emissions

## Activity data required

Calculations are based on the amount of **energy** used during
combustion of the chosen type of **fuel**, on either a *net* or *gross*
basis.

## Calculation and result

The following quantities are calculated on the basis of the amount of
energy combusted and associated emission factors: **CO,,2,,**,
**CH,,4,,**, **N,,2,,O**, **total direct CO,,2,,e**, **full life cycle
CO,,2,,e**.

Users should note that **all quantities** (including the separated
CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions) are expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, that would exert the same atmospheric warming effect
and the emissions quantity.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other DEFRA methodologies are available for fuel combustion with
[mass](Mass_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) and
[volume](Volume_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) based calculations.

Fuel properties, such as density and calorific values, can be found
[here](Fuel_properties_by_DEFRA).

-----

## Notes

### Renewable Fuel Considerations

Separate Emission factors are provided for diesel, petrol, a
diesel+biodiesel blend (= 4.2% by unit mass, 4.0% by unit volume, 3.7%
by unit energy), and a petrol+bioethanol blend (= 3.1% by unit mass,
2.9% by unit volume, 1.9% by unit energy). Blended fuel emission factors
are a weighted average of those respective fuels provided at UK public
refuelling stations as a proportion of the total supply. These estimates
have been made based on the most recently available reports on the
Renewable Transport Fuel Obligation (RTFO).

-----
