**Grid electricity methodology. Calculates carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,)
emissions associated with gas-fired electricity generation by country.**

## Summary

This methodology represents CO,,2,, emissions associated with the
gas-fired production of grid electricity in specific countries and other
international jurisdictions. The data is sourced from the [Greenhouse
Gas Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol)
[worksheet](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools) for
*GHG emissions from purchased electricity* (Version 2.1; published June
2009), based on data published by the International Energy Agency
[IEA](http://www.iea.org/index.asp).

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Electricity is produced by a variety of energy sources, including fossil
fuel combustion (coal, natural gas, oil), nuclear fission, and renewable
sources (e.g. hydro, wind, solar). These sources produce greenhouse
gases and other pollutants to differing extents. This methodology
represents greenhouse gas emissions associated with gas-fired
power-generation specifically.

The methodology is based upon emissions factors which represent the rate
at which emissions occur in relation to quantities of electricity
generated. Multiplying a quantity of electricity generated by these
emissions factors results in an estimate of the emissions associated
with that quantity.

### Model data

The emissions intensity of oil-fired plants varies by geographic region.
100 distinct countries and other international jurisdictions are
described by time-series of historical annual emissions factors for
CO,,2,, (2000-2006).

### Activity data required

The quantity of electricity generated is required to make a calculation.

### Calculation and result

The quantity returned represents the CO,,2,, emissions associated with
the country/region and energy quantity specified.
