**Metal industry methodology, aluminium. Calculates carbon dioxide
(CO,,2,,) emissions based on the quantity of aluminium produced.
Scenarios include prebake and Søderberg processes. Globally
applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **carbon dioxide** (CO,,2,,) emissions
associated with the production of **aluminium**. The data and
calculation methodology is sourced from the [Greenhouse Gas
Protocol](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol) (GHGP) worksheet tool *[GHG emissions
from the production of aluminum,
version 2.0](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/files/ghgp/tools/Aluminium%20Sector%20GHG%20Workbook%20-%20version%202.0.xls)*,
which is ultimately based on the methodologies described in *[Volume 3,
Chapter 4 - Metal Industry
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/3_Volume3/V3_4_Ch4_Metal_Industry.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Aluminium is extracted from its ore (aluminium oxide (Al,,2,,O,,3,,), or
'bauxite') using an electrolysis cell and carbon anodes. During
electrolysis, the aluminium (Al) is separated according to the following
equation:

1.  2Al,,2,,O,,3,, + 3C =\> 4Al + 3CO,,2,,

Carbon (C) at the anode is therefore consumed during electrolysis and
emitted as CO,,2,,. This net reaction accounts for the majority of
process-related greenhouse gas emissions in aluminium production.

This methodology enables the calculation of aluminium-associated CO,,2,,
emissions on the basis of an emissions factor which represents the rate
at which CO,,2,, is emitted in relation to the quantity of aluminium
produced. Multiplying a quantity of aluminium produced by these
emissions factors results in an estimate of the emissions associated
with that quantity.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach, and is
considered advisable in cases where there is insufficient activity data
available to use the more detailed [prebake](Aluminium_prebake),
[Søderberg](Aluminium_soderberg) or
[alternative](Aluminium_alternative) methodologies.

### Model data

The rate at which CO,,2,, is emitted in relation to aluminium production
depends on the specific type of technology employed. This methodology
provides emissions factors representing the typical unit emissions
associated with prebake and Søderberg cells. Each technology type is
represented by a CO,,2,, emission factor (i.e. kg \[emissions\] per kg
\[aluminium\]), although these values can be specified on
facility-specific basis if data is available.

### Activity data required

CO,,2,, emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of
aluminium produced** (i.e. mass), which therefore must be provided in
order to calculate. In addition, the methodology enables the
specification of a **facility-specific data CO,,2,, emissions factor**
where this is available.

### Calculation and results

**CO,,2,,** emissions are calculated by simply multiplying the specified
quantity of aluminium produced by the emissions factor. These emissions
represent those attributable to the specified quantity of aluminium
produced.

-----

## Related methodologies

In cases where more detailed activity data are available, the IPCC
[prebake](Aluminium_prebake) and [Søderberg](Aluminium_soderberg)
methodologies may provide more accurate emissions calculations.

IPCC methodologies for aluminium-associated *PFC emissions* (CF,,4,, and
C,,2,,F,,6,,) are also available, including a simple
*[tier 1](Aluminium_PFC_Defaults)* approach and two alternative
approaches for *tiers 2/3*: the [slope](Aluminium_PFC_Slope) and
[overvoltage](Aluminium_PFC_Overvoltage) methods.
