**Domestic livestock methodology, manure management and storage.
Calculates nitrous oxide emissions (N,,2,,O and CO,,2,,e) based on
livestock population or total liveweight. Scenarios include cattle,
buffalo and swine. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O) emissions
associated with the **management and storage of buffalo, cattle and
swine manure**. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from the
[IPCC](IPCC), as published in *[Volume 4, Chapter 10 - Emissions from
Livestock and Manure
Management](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_10_Ch10_Livestock.pdf)*
and *[Volume 4, Chapter 11 - N2O Emissions from Managed Soils, and CO2
Emissions from Lime and Urea
Application](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_11_Ch11_N2O&CO2.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Nitrogen (N) found within the excretions of livestock manure contributes
to N,,2,,O emissions both *directly* and *indirectly*. Direct emissions
arise from the processes of *nitrification* and *denitrification*.
Nitrification is the transformation of N-containing compounds (ammonia
(NH,,3,,) =\> nitrite (NO,,2,,^^-^^) =\> nitrate (NO,,3,,^^-^^)) which
occurs under aerobic conditions (i.e. in the presence of oxygen).
Denitrification is the subsequent transformation to N,,2,,O which occurs
only under anaerobic conditions. As such, direct N,,2,,O emissions
require both aerobic and anaerobic conditions in succession. Indirect
emissions result from the vaporization of N-containing compounds
(primarily NH,,3,, and mono-nitrogen oxides, NO,,x,,) as well as through
runoff and leaching into soils. Indirect emissions depend primarily on
time.

This emissions methodology is based upon factors which describe both the
direct and indirect pathways of manure-N (i.e. manure-associated
nitrogen). Direct emissions are based upon the typical **daily** rates
at which manure-N is produced by livestock, and the rates at which this
N is converted directly into N,,2,,O-N (i.e. nitrous oxide-associated
nitrogen). Indirect emissions are based upon the typical fractions of
excreted N which are *volatilised* and the rates at which this
volatilised N is converted into N,,2,,O-N.

Quantities of N,,2,,O-N are then converted into N,,2,,O emission
quantities on the basis of their relative molecular masses.

Annual emission rates (e.g. *kg / year*) for a population or
sub-population of livestock are calculated by multiplying the unit
emissions rates (i.e. *per animal* or *liveweight*) by the total size of
the livestock population which is under consideration.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach.

### Model data

The rate at which N,,2,,O is emitted ultimately depends on the nitrogen
(N) and carbon (C) content of manure, and the duration of storage and
type of treatment. As such, emissions factors for a broad range of
scenarios are provided within this methodology. A total of 765 specific
scenarios are represented, differentiated by **geographic region**
(e.g., *North America*, *Middle East*), **livestock type** (e.g.,
*buffalo*, *dairy cattle*, *market swine*), **manure management type**
(e.g. *composting*, *anaerobic digester*) and **subtype** (e.g. *static
pile*, *natural aeration*).

Each scenario is represented by several data values, including the
*typical livestock mass*, *daily N excretion rates*, *direct* and
*indirect N to N,,2,,O-N conversion factors*, and the *fraction of
manure-N typically volatilised*. In addition, this methodology uses two
general constants for deriving emissions quantities from N,,2,,O-N:

  - *molecular mass ratio of N,,2,,O and N*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O-N quantity into N,,2,,O (44/28)

<!-- end list -->

  - *global warming potential of N,,2,,O*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O emissions quantity into
    **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
    quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
    effect.

### Activity data required

N,,2,,O emissions are directly proportionate to the **total liveweight**
of the livestock population kept. This can be specified either directly,
or by using the **total population** of the livestock under
consideration, in which case the methodology will calculate the total
liveweight based on the typical mass of individual animals.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to the specified population of livestock over a period of 1
year.

The methodology calculates two emissions quantities: (1) the
**absolute** quantity of N,,2,,O associated with the livestock
population; and (2) N,,2,,O emissions expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)**.

-----

## Additional information

### Nomenclature

Following [IPCC](IPCC) advice, the term *manure* is used collectively to
include both dung and urine (i.e., the solids and the liquids) produced
by livestock.

### Incomplete data

Data on the fraction of manure N lost through volatilisation is not
provided for all combinations of livestock type and manure management
practices in the IPCC source documentation. Where possible, AMEE returns
the sum of both direct and indirect N,,2,,O emissions. Otherwise, the
returned values represent direct emissions only.

-----

## Related methodologies

Analogous methodologies are also available focussing on
[poultry](Poultry_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions),
[fur-bearing](Fur_bearing_livestock_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions) and
[other](Other_livestock_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions) livestock
N,,2,,O emissions associated with manure management.
