**Benchmark dataset. Disclosed emissions for companies reporting to the
UK Government's Carbon Reduction Commitment initiative. UK.**

## Summary

This dataset describes greenhouse gas emissions and related metrics
associated with companies reporting to the UK Government's [Carbon
Reduction Commitment](Carbon_Reduction_Commitment) initiative (CRC).

-----

## The dataset

The CRC is a UK Government initiative requiring large emitters to
disclose the CO,,2,, emissions arising from some of their activities.
These activities represent stationary burning of some common fuels as
well as electricity consumption.

This dataset provides a number of metrics which describe the emissions
performance of over 2000 participants based in the UK reporting
emissions under the CRC. The data follows the structure of a league
table, ranking the participants according to three weighted metrics:
*Early Action Metric*, *Absolute Metric*, and *Growth Metric*.
Participants with the same weighted score are sorted alphabetically.
These and other related metrics are described in more detail below

### Emissions

The total quantity of CO,,2,, emitted by the participant during an
annual reporting period. These emissions are limited to those activities
which require disclosure under the CRC qualification criteria (a
selection of common fuels and electricity consumption).

### Rank

The ranking of the participant within the league table based on the
'weighted score'.

### Weighted Score

The sum of each of each metric multiplied by a weighting for that
metric. The weighting applied to each metric is dependent on the
compliance year to which the league table relates. Higher scores result
in a better ranking.

### Early Action Metric

This is a percentage (%), calculated as the average of two other
percentage-based metrics:

1.  The proportion of non-mandatory CRC electricity or gas consumption
    which are measured through voluntarily installed 'automatic meter
    reading' meters or dynamic supply in year one of the CRC scheme.

<!-- end list -->

1.  The fraction of CRC emissions which are covered by the Carbon Trust
    Standard or an equivalent scheme.

### Absolute Emissions Metric

The percentage change in the CRC Emissions of a participant. This metric
is not applicable in the first reporting year.

### Growth Metric

The percentage change in CRC Emissions per unit turnover or revenue
expenditure for an annual reporting year. This metric is not applicable
in the first reporting year.
