The authority assigned to each AMEE category is an indication of the
confidence we have in the data in that category. The authority levels
are, in decreasing order of confidence:

  - ![](/images/enterprise.png) Enterprise
  - ![](/images/recommended.png) Recommended
  - ![](/images/verified.png) Verified
  - ![](/images/unverified.png) Unverified

An additional authority status denotes information only:

  - ![](/images/info.png) Information

## {{/images/enterprise.png}} Enterprise

This indicates that AMEE is confident in the accuracy and veracity of
the data and the associated assumptions and calculations of the AMEE
algorithms. *Enterprise* level data is always from a well known and
reputable source and has been passed through AMEE's rigorous QA and peer
review process without raising cause for concern.

It is possible that the source contained errors in either data or
methodology, in which case these will have been noted in the
AMEEdiscover documentation and corrected before the data and algorithm
have been placed in AMEE.

## {{/images/recommended.png}} Recommended

This is for categories that AMEE has confidence in, but with some
reservations. Most often, recommended data is from a well known,
reputable source and was expected to be enterprise level, but our QA
process identified some aspect of it as being problematic. This could be
because the source of the data has not made its assumptions clear or
because its assumptions are questionable or prone to being inappropriate
in common use-cases. It could also be because we were unable to verify
some of the primary referenced sources for non-core aspects of the data
or methodology.

## {{/images/verified.png}} Verified

*Verified* authority is used when we are able to identify the source of
the data, but we have not subjected it to our full QA and peer review
process. This is usually because the data has been placed in AMEE by a
third party that AMEE recognises as a trustworthy source.

## {{/images/unverified.png}} Unverified

*Unverified* means that we have not verified the source, nor have we
subjected its data or methodologies to our QA and peer review process.
This authority level is mainly used for user generated or crowd sourced
content.

## {{/images/info.png}} Information

The *Information* authority is used to indicate a page which provides
information rather than explicitly referring to a specific AMEE
category.
