**Solid waste emissions methodology. Calculates methane (CH,,4,,) and
CO,,2,,e emissions associated with solid waste disposal facilities using
disposal rates. Global.**

## Summary

This methodology represents methane (CH,,4,,) emissions associated with
the disposal of solid waste at landfill sites. The methodology is
sourced from the WRI Greenhouse Gas protocol
[worksheets](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools) but
ultimately follows a methodology published by the [Climate Change
Working
Group](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/downloads/calcs/Pulp_and_Paper_Guidance.pdf)
of The International Council of Forest and Paper Associations (ICFPA).

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Part of the natural carbon cycle is the decay of the organic compounds
that are found within the tissues of formerly living organisms. This
process returns carbon to the atmosphere which was removed during the
growth of the organism and is therefore neutral with respect to
atmospheric carbon concentrations. Importantly, however, the released
carbon takes the form of CO,,2,, under normal, surface conditions, but
methane (CH,,4,,) is formed when decay takes place under conditions of
low oxygen availablity (e.g. buried within sediments or soil). Since
CH,,4,, is a more effective greenhouse gas than CO,,2,,, it follows that
any anthropogenic activity which shifts decay processes from
CO,,2,,-producing to CH,,4,,-producing processes can be considered a net
contributor to atmospheric warming. The practice of burying organic
waste (food, garden waste, paper, wood, sewage) in landfill sites is
such an activity.

This methodology represents a simplified version of the general
methodology in the IPCC's [National Greenhouse Gas Inventory
Programme](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/). The IPCC methodology
describes the way in which, as organic waste decays over time, the
CH,,4,, generated during any given time period (a year, for example) is
the product of waste buried in all previous time intervals. Older waste
contributes proportionately less since it has already ungone some decay
during earlier periods. Calculating emissions, therefore, is dependent
on knowing the ages and quantities of all waste deposited in the
landfill, together with the rate at which decay occurs and the
theoretical maximum quantity of CH,,4,, generated per unit quantity of
waste (the 'ultimate methane potential').

This process is significantly simplified if waste deposition occurs at a
constant rate. In this case, emissions become a function of the rate of
waste deposition and the time period over which it was deposited, as
well as the rate of decay and methane potential.

The oxidation of CH,,4,, produces CO,,2,, (and water) and therefore to
the extent that landfill-generated CH,,4,, is oxidised, it can be
considered a mitigation. Landfill-generated CH,,4,, may be oxidised
passively within the surface layers of the landfill (where oxygen is
present) or collected and intentionally burned. As well as calculating
the total quantity of CH,,4,, generated during a given time period,
therefore, this methodology also enables the effects of oxidised CH,,4,,
to be accounted for.

### Model data

Generated CH,,4,, is calculated on a volumetric basis but converted into
a mass-based emission estimate using a standard default value for the
density of CH,,4,, provided in the methodology.

All other values used in the calculation are provided by activity data,
although default values are provided in the methodology for the waste
decay rate and ultimate methane potential, the CH,,4,, content of
collected gases, the collection efficiency, and the fractions of gas
which are both burned and oxidised naturally.

### Activity data required

The rate of waste deposition, together with the time intervals since the
landfill was opened and closed (zero if an existing site) are required
to make a calculation.

Values for the waste decay rate and ultimate methane potential, as well
as the CH,,4,, content of collected gases, the collection efficiency,
and the fractions of gas which are both burned and oxidised naturally
can also be provided although the methodology provides typical values
for each which can be used in cases where these data are not available.

### Calculation and result

The quantities returned represent the CH,,4,, and the corresponding
CO,,2,,e emissions associated with the activity data specified for the
period under consideration. CO,,2,,e emissions are converted using
[these](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) global warming
potential).

-----

## Related methodologies

An [alternative](Landfill_emissions_based_on_methane_recovery)
methodology for landfill-associated emissions, which is based upon
quantities of gases collected rather than waste deposited, is also
available.
