**This category is deprecated. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol methodologies
for bus transport can now be found
[here](US_road_transport_by_Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol)**

Bus generic US data is from the [GHGP
worksheet](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools) GHG
emissions from transport or mobile sources v2.0. This category allows
the user to calculate emissions from a bus journey on a *per vehicle*
basis, while the /perpassenger subcategory contains emissions
calculations on a *per passenger* basis.

To use this category select the type of bus fuel from the following
options using the drill-down *fuelType*:

  - cng
  - ethanol
  - diesel
  - gasoline

The ***distance*** is then set as a profile item value. The algorithm
returns a sum of CO,,2,,, N,,2,,O and CH,,4,, emissions for the fuel
type and distance specified.******

## Biomass fuels

The GHG protocol requires CO,,2,, emissions from biomass fuels to be
reported separately, due to the fact that the CO,,2,, released from
biomass fuels has only recently been sequestered from the atmosphere and
so does not constitute a net increase in CO,,2,,, unlike fossil fuel
emissions or those of CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O. Therefore, only the CH,,4,,
and N,,2,, emissions for ethanol are included here, while the associated
CO,,2,, emissions can be found in the
[biomass](US_biofuel_bus_transport) subcategory. If the user wishes to
calculate their total GHG emissions from ethanol-powered bus travel
(i.e. including the biomass CO2 component), they should use both
categories in combination.
