The term 'radiative forcing' describes the influence of a particular
factor on changing the balance of incoming and outgoing radiation within
the atmosphere. The effect of greenhouse gases on atmospheric warming
can be described as a radiative forcing.

There is some uncertainty over the environmental impact of aircraft
emissions which arises from the complexity of atmospheric chemistry. In
particular, the emission of non-CO,,2,, products (e.g. water vapour,
contrails, NO,,x,,) at high altitudes is argued to exert a *greater*
global warming effect compared with similar emissions at ground level.
As such, the impact on net irradiance (the radiative forcing) of
emissions associated with aviation is debated.

Aircraft-associated greenhouse gas emissions are most directly estimated
on the basis of the quantity of fuel burned together with data on the
properties of the fuel such its carbon content. In order to account for
the discrepancy between these absolute emissions and the effective
radiative forcing (which is potentially greater), emissions can adjusted
using a multiplicative factor called the Radiative Forcing Index (RFI).
The RFI represents the ratio of *all* radiative forcing (CO,,2,, +
non-CO,,2,, emissions) to that arising from *CO,,2,, emissions only*.
Applying the RFI inflates the emissions estimates in the proportion
considered to more accurately represent their true radiative forcing.

Estimates for RFI range between 1 and 4 with a value of 2.7 recommended
by the IPCC in 1999. No specific recommended value was quoted in the
most recent IPCC report (2007), and the current best estimate for RFI is
1.9 ([Sausen et al.
(2005)](http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/schweiz/mz/2005/00000014/00000004/art00013)).

-----
