**Grid electricity emissions methodology. Calculates carbon dioxide
(CO,,2,,), methane (CH,,4,,), nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O), carbon
dioxide-equivalent (CO,,2,,e), other nitrogen oxides (NO,,x,,), sulphur
dioxide (SO,,2,,) and mercury (Hg) emissions based on the quantity of
electricity generated or consumed. Scenarios include total and
non-baseload emissions intensities, for individual states within the
United States.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **carbon dioxide** (CO,,2,,), **methane**
(CH,,4,,), **nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O), **CO,,2,,e**, other **nitrogen
oxide** (NO,,x,,), **sulphur dioxide** (SO,,2,,) and **mercury** (Hg)
emissions associated with the generation and consumption of grid
electricity in the United States. The data and calculation methodology
is sourced from the *[Emissions & Generation Resource Integrated
Database (eGRID2010,
version 1.1)](http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/egrid/index.html)*
published by the US Environmental Protection Agency.

This dataset represents grid electricity aggregated at the state level.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Electricity is produced by a variety of energy sources, including fossil
fuel combustion (coal, natural gas, oil), nuclear fission, and renewable
sources (e.g. hydro, wind, solar). These sources produce greenhouse
gases and other pollutants to differing extents. The specific
combination of generation types which supply a particular electricity
distribution network (or 'grid') therefore determines the emissions
intensity of the electricity delivered and consumed.

**Basic model:** This methodology enables the calculation of grid
electricity-associated greenhouse gas (and other) emissions on the basis
of emissions factors which represent the rate at which emissions occur
in relation to quantities of electricity generated. Multiplying a
quantity of electricity generated by these emissions factors results in
an estimate of the emissions associated with that quantity.

**Generated versus consumed:** The delivery of generated electricity via
a grid network is associated with 'distribution and transmission
losses'. Therefore, the emissions intensity of electricity consumed by
an end-user of the grid is typically higher than that of the same
quantity of electricity supplied to the grid. EPA publish [data on
transmission losses](EPA_eGRID_transmission_losses) for the main
'parent' grid regions of the United States. Converting between generated
and consumed emissions intensities is achieved by dividing the emissions
factor for generation by the appropriate transmission loss quantity (%),
as follows:

*emissions factor*,,consumption,, = *emissions factor*,,generation,, /
(1 - (*transmission loss*,,%,, / 100))

**Total versus non-baseload:** The methodology differentiates between
'total' emissions and 'non-baseload' emissions. **Non-baseload
emissions** factors represent the aggregated emissions intensities of
power plant generation which is not considered to contribute to the grid
baseload (i.e. the minimum level of output supplied to the grid). These
emission factors are considered to be useful for estimating the effects
of reducing grid electricity consumption, since baseload generation is
largely unaffected by such measures. These factors should not be used to
calculate emissions for actual electricity consumed for use in
footprinting or inventory exercises.

### Model data

The rate at which emissions are produced in relation to grid electricity
supplied depends on the mix of generation types which contribute to the
grid. This varies both across geographic space and through time. This
methodology provides emissions factors representing the typical unit
emission rates associated with electricity supplied for specific
calendar years in each state of the US.

Emissions are provided representing the following cases:

  - Greenhouse gases and pollutants: *CO,,2,,*, *CH,,4,,*, *N,,2,,O*,
    *CO,,2,,e*, *NO,,x,,*, *ozone season NO,,x,,*, *SO,,2,,* and *Hg*
  - *Total* and *non-baseload* generation
  - Calendar years: *2004*, *2005* and *2007*

In addition, [data on transmission
losses](EPA_eGRID_transmission_losses) is also made available for the
purpose of calculating emissions from the perspective of the end
consumer.

### Activity data required

Emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of electricity**
under consideration, which therefore must be available in order to
calculate. Users must make a choice as to whether to calculate on the
basis of electicity generated and supplied to the grid or on the basis
of electricity consumed.

### Calculation and results

**CO,,2,,**, **CH,,4,,**, **N,,2,,O**, **CO,,2,,e**, **NO,,x,,**,
**ozone season NO,,x,,**, **SO,,2,,** and **Hg** emissions are
calculated by multiplying the specified quantity of electricity supplied
or consumed by the appropriate emissions factor. These emissions
represent those attributable to the specified quantity of electricity.

-----

## Related methodologies

The EPA eGRID dataset provides data aggregated into other geographic
domains, including, *eGRID* and *NERC* regions, 'power control areas'
and zip codes. More information on these datasets and calculation
methodologies can be found [here](US_E_grid).

-----

## Notes

## Ozone season NO,,x,,

The emissions factors for 'ozone season NO,,x,,' represent emissions
intensities for NO,,x,, during the period May-September, when excessive
levels of ozone, or smog, are most likely to form in the atmosphere due
to a chemical reaction of nitrogen oxides with other pollutants in the
presence of sunlight.
