**Fugitive emissions methodology, abandoned underground mines.
Calculates methane (CH,,4,,) emissions based on the time since mine
abandonment. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **methane** (CH,,4,,) emissions associated
with **abandoned, underground coal mines**. The data and calculation
methodology are sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in
*[Volume 2, Chapter 4 - Fugitive
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/2_Volume2/V2_4_Ch4_Fugitive_Emissions.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

After closure, coal mines may continue to emit methane as a result of in
situ gases migrating through natural or manmade conduits such as old
portals, vent pipes, or cracks and fissures in the overlying strata.
Abandoned mines may flood as a result of groundwater intrusion or
surface flow, in which case emissions from *completely* flooded
abandoned mines can be treated as negligible. Non-flooded or
partially-flooded mines can continue to produce methane (CH,,4,,)
emissions over a long period of time.

This methodology calculates the **annual** fugitive CH,,4,, emissions
from abandoned mines, and is specifically applicable to mines considered
to be 'gassy' during the period in which they were active. The
methodology represents the IPCC *tier 2* approach.

Emissions are calculated by deriving an emissions factor which is
specific to the mine under consideration. This emissions factor is based
on the known **annual CH,,4,, emissions of the mine prior to
abandonment** together with a **decay model** describing the typical
decrease in this rate through time. The derived emissions factor
represents the annual rate of emissions from the mine after a specific
period of abandonment.

Also factored in to calculations is the quantity of CH,,4,, which is
recovered during the annual period under consideration.

### Model data

Fugitive CH,,4,, emissions are at their greatest immediately subsequent
to abandonment and decrease through time thereafter. The rate at which
these emissions decline through time (since abandonment) depends on the
type (or 'rank') of coal mined. Decay parameters are provided for three
coal ranks: **anthracite**, **bituminous**, and **sub-bituminous**.

Also used for calculating emissions are:

  - A standard value for the *density of CH,,4,,* (0.67 tonnes per
    m^^3^^) which enables the conversion of volumetric to mass-based
    emissions

<!-- end list -->

  - The *global warming potential of CH,,4,,* which enables the
    conversion of absolute CH,,4,, emissions into a
    [CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) quantity -
    i.e. the quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric
    warming effect

### Activity data required

Annual CH,,4,, - under this methodology - depend on two factors **(1)**
the **annual CH,,4,, emissions prior to abandonment**; and **(2)** the
**time since abandonment**. Both of these data must therefore be
specified in order to calculate.

The specification of a **volume of recovered methane** can also be
optionally provided.

### Calculation and results

CH,,4,, emissions are calculated according to the data specified, taking
into account the reduction in fugitive emissions which has occurred over
the period of abandonment. From the CH,,4,, emissions calculated, any
CH,,4,, recovered during the inventory year is then subtracted.

Two emissions quantities are ultimately provided, representing:
**CH,,4,,** and **CO,,2,,e** emissions. All emissions calculated by this
methodology represent those attributable to the abandoned mine for the
annual period under consideration, minus any CH,,4,, which is recovered
during that time.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other IPCC methodologies which focus on mining-associated fugitive
emissions scenarios are available, covering
[underground](Underground_mining) and [surficial](Surface_mining) active
mines, the [tier 1](Generic_abandoned_mines) methodology for abandoned
underground mines, and [methane flaring](Methane_flaring).

Where recovered methane is burned for energy production, flared, or fed
into a gas distribution system, the IPCC methodologies for [stationary
fuel combustion](Stationary_Combustion), [methane
flaring](Methane_flaring) and [oil and gas
processing](Oil_and_gas_fugitive_emissions) may be of interest.
