**Solid waste emissions methodology. Calculates methane (CH<sub>4</sub>) and
CO<sub>2</sub>e emissions associated with solid waste disposal facilities using
methane collection systems. Global.**

## Summary

This methodology represents methane (CH<sub>4</sub>) emissions associated with
the disposal of solid waste at landfill sites. The methodology is
sourced from the WRI Greenhouse Gas protocol
[worksheets](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools) but
ultimately follows a methodology published by the [Climate Change
Working
Group](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/downloads/calcs/Pulp_and_Paper_Guidance.pdf)
of The International Council of Forest and Paper Associations (ICFPA).

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Part of the natural carbon cycle is the decay of the organic compounds
that are found within the tissues of formerly living organisms. This
process returns carbon to the atmosphere which was removed during the
growth of the organism and is therefore neutral with respect to
atmospheric carbon concentrations. Importantly, however, the released
carbon takes the form of CO<sub>2</sub> under normal, surface conditions, but
methane (CH<sub>4</sub>) is formed when decay takes place under conditions of
low oxygen availablity (e.g. buried within sediments or soil). Since
CH<sub>4</sub> is a more effective greenhouse gas than CO<sub>2</sub>, it follows that
any anthropogenic activity which shifts decay processes from
CO<sub>2</sub>-producing to CH<sub>4</sub>-producing processes can be considered a net
contributor to atmospheric warming. The practice of burying organic
waste (food, garden waste, paper, wood, sewage) in landfill sites is
such an activity.

The oxidation of CH<sub>4</sub> produces CO<sub>2</sub> (and water) and therefore to
the extent that landfill-generated CH<sub>4</sub> is oxidised, it can be
considered a mitigation. Landfill-generated CH<sub>4</sub> may be oxidised
passively within the surface layers of the landfill (where oxygen is
present) or collected and intentionally burned.

This methodology is based upon a mass-balance approach which considers
the quantity and characteristics of gas collected from landfill gas
collection systems. Specifically, the calculation uses the quantity of
gas collected, together with its measured CH<sub>4</sub> content and an
estimate of the collection efficiency to estimate the absolute quantity
of CH<sub>4</sub> generated by the buried waste. This quantity is offset by
estimates of the fraction which oxidised naturally and the fraction
which is burned following collection.

### Model data

Collected CH<sub>4</sub> is specfied on a volumetric basis but converted into a
mass-based emission estimate using a standard default value for the
density of CH<sub>4</sub> provided in the methodology.

All other values used in the calculation are provided by activity data,
although default values are provided in the methodology for CH<sub>4</sub>
content of collected gases, the collection efficiency, and the fractions
of gas which are both burned and oxidised naturally.

### Activity data required

The quantity of gas collected during the period under consideration is
required to make a calculation.

Values for the CH<sub>4</sub> content of collected gases, the collection
efficiency, and the fractions of gas which are both burned and oxidised
naturally can also be provided although the methodology provides typical
values for each which can be used in cases where these data are not
available.

### Calculation and result

The quantities returned represent the CH<sub>4</sub> and the corresponding
CO<sub>2</sub>e emissions associated with the activity data specified for the
period under consideration. CO<sub>2</sub>e emissions are converted using
[these](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) global warming
potential).

-----

## Related methodologies

An [alternative](Waste_steady_state) methodology for landfill-associated
emissions, which is based upon quantities of waste deposited rather than
gases collected, is also available.
