The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change is one of the leading
bodies for climate change assessment. It was founded by the United
Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the World Meteorological
Organization (WMO) to provide a clear scientific view on the current
state of climate change and its potential environmental and
socio-economic consequences.

The IPCC reviews and assesses the most recent international scientific,
technical and socio-economic information on climate change. It is
constructed voluntarily by thousands of scientists across the world. The
work of the organisation is policy-neutral thanks to its scientific and
intergovernmental nature and constantly reviewed to ensure high-quality,
reliable information.

-----

## IPCC National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme

One group of the many publications to come out of the IPCC is the
National Greenhouse Gas Inventories Programme (IPCC-NGGIP). This is the
origin of AMEE's IPCC-sourced data. The most recent data was released in
the 2006 IPCC National Greenhouse Gas Inventories.

The Guidelines provide
[methodologies](Primary_Data_and_Methodologies_Represented_in_AMEE) for
estimating national inventories of anthropogenic emissions by sources
and removals by sinks of greenhouse gases. They provide internationally
agreed methodologies that countries currently use to estimate greenhouse
gas inventories to report to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC). The information covers falls into 5 main
categories:

  - General reporting guidance, including uncertainties and
    methodological choice
  - Energy, including fugitive emissions and stationary and mobile
    combustion
  - Industrial processes, including mineral, chemical, metal and
    electronics
  - Agriculture and forestry, including fires, cropland and managed
    soils
  - Waste, including municipal, industrial, solid, composting and
    incineration

-----

## Notable Assumptions

The IPCC NGGIP makes the assumption that biofuels do not contribute a
net increase in carbon dioxide, since the amount released upon
combustion is only equal to that absorbed during the lifetime of the
biomass source. This differs from fossil fuel emissions which, when
combusted, emit carbon into the atmosphere that was removed during the
plant or animal's lifetime millions of years previously. The point being
that to keep carbon dioxide levels stable we can only emit at the same
rate as it is being absorbed. Fossil fuels disrupt the present day
carbon cycle by releasing carbon dioxide that was absorbed millions of
years ago.

-----

## Relationship to the Greenhouse gas protocol

Pages tagged with IPCC are those sourced directly from the IPCC. The
IPCC is used as one of the major sources of data by the
[GHGP](Greenhouse_Gas_Protocol). Therefore, there is a substantial
overlap in data sourced from the GHGP and IPCC.

-----

## Note

The IPCC methodology for emissions associated with paraffin wax
consumption is not represented explicitly in AMEE. Such emissions arise
only from the combustion of waxes whereas other uses do not cause
emissions into the atmosphere. The IPCC methodology provides a default
factor describing the typical proportion (20%) of paraffin waxes which
are used for combustion on a national basis. This factor can therefore
be used to estimate emissions where only the *total* consumption of wax
is known. In AMEE, users can calculate their paraffin wax-associated
emissions more accurately by specifying the actual quantity known to be
used in combustion. This functionality can be found in the [Stationary
combustion](Stationary_Combustion) category, which similarly uses data
and calculation methodologies provided by the IPCC.

-----
