The AMEE category at /business/energy/electricity/defra provides a rich
dataset and calculation methodologies for greenhouse gas emissions
associated with the production, transmission and consumption of grid
electricity. The data is sourced from the UK government department
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting).

The subcategories for UK and international electricity data contain data
which differentiates several aspects electricity-associated emissions.
Details of these can be found below.

### Activity type

Separate data are available for greenhouse gas emissions attributable to
electricity *generation*, electricity *transmission and distribution*,
and electricity *consumption*. All greenhouse gas emissions are
ultimately associated with the generation phase, being a consequence of
fuel/energy consumption (*direct* emissions) and related activities
(*indirect*: e.g. fuel sourcing, transport) at the power plant. However,
since there are usually losses associated with the *distribution and
transmission* of electricity, the quantity of emissions *per unit of
electricity generated* (e.g. *kWh*) usually differs from the
corresponding *per unit* emissions at the *point of consumption*. The
DEFRA dataset provides values for greenhouse gas quantities which are
attributable to the intermediate transmission phase, although these
should be understood to be an accounting convenience reflecting
transmission (in)efficiency rather than actual emissions caused during
this phase. The emissions associated with electricity *consumption* are
simply the sum of those attributable to generation and transmission. In
most cases - i.e. those in which the final, end-point of electricity
usage is under consideration - the values for *consumption* should be
used.

### Emission type

The DEFRA dataset differentiates between *direct* and *indirect*
greenhouse gas emissions. 'Direct' emissions are limited to those
associated with activities at the power plant, while 'indirect'
emissions refer to those which derive from other stages in the
production chain such as raw material extraction and fuel delivery. The
combination of these two types of emission represents full *life cycle*
emissions for electricity. The importance of these emissions types will
vary depending on how the user attributes the various portions of the
life cycle emissions to the various agents involved (e.g. supplier,
producer, consumer). It is most common to use *direct* emissions only
when considering electricity consumption. In the UK-specifc dataset,
direct emissions are additionally differentiated by the specific
greenhouse gases CO,,2,,, CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O. Indirect and life cycle
emissions are expressed in terms of CO,,2,,e.

### Historical values

The greenhouse gas emissions produced *per unit* of electricity
generated/consumed varies through time as the mix of fuels used by power
stations supplying a national or regional grid changes. These changes
may reflect variations in electricity demand or the relative prices of
different fuel types. DEFRA publishes *annual emissions factors* based
on the average quantity of emissions per unit of electricity across the
grid during each calendar year. These values cover the period 1990-2008
for the UK and 1990-2006 for the international dataset. In addition to
the raw annual values, DEFRA provides '*rolling average*' emissions
factors which represent the average of the previous 5 years for each
given year. These are suggested as being more suitable for inter-annual
comparisons by DEFRA.
