**Grid electricity methodology. Calculates carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,)
emissions associated with the generation of grid electricity. China.**

## Summary

This methodology represents CO,,2,, emissions associated with the
production of grid electricity in China. The data is based upon the
[Greenhouse Gas
Protocol](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools)
purchased electricity worksheet, version 4.2, published in July 2011.

## The methodology

### Emissions model

This methodology is based upon emissions factors which represent the
rate at which emissions occur in relation to quantities of electricity
consumed. Multiplying a quantity of electricity consumed by these
emissions factors results in an estimate of the emissions associated
with that quantity.

### Model data

The emissions intensity of grid electricity in China varies according to
specfic grid sub-regions. Each grid sub-region is represented by it's
own characteristic emissions intensity related to the specific mix of
generating technologies employed wihtin each region. This methodology
contains characteristic CO,,2,, emissions intensities for 7 grid
sub-regions.

### Activity data required

The quantity of electricity generated is required to make a calculation.

The Greenhouse Gas Protocol worksheets additionally provide
functionality for the accounting of electricity usage in shared
facilities. This calculation is based on the proportion of floor area
which is under consideration (e.g. square feet of office space). In this
case the 'responsible' and 'total' areas should also be provided.

### Calculation and result

By default, the quantity returned represents the CO,,2,, emissions
associated with the grid sub-region and the total quantity of energy
specified. If values for the 'responsible' and 'total' areas are
provided the returned value represents just the emissions attributable
to the area under consdsideration.
