**Managed soils methodology, urine and dung additions from grazing
livestock. Calculates nitrous oxide emissions (N,,2,,O and CO,,2,,e)
based on quantity of N deposition. Scenarios include cattle, poultry,
swine, sheep and other livestock. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O) emissions
associated with the **deposition of urine and dung-sourced nitrogen to
managed soils**. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from
the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in *[Volume 4, Chapter 11 - N2O Emissions
from Managed Soils, and CO2 Emissions from Lime and Urea
Application](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_11_Ch11_N2O&CO2.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) is produced naturally in soils through the
processes of nitrification and denitrification. Nitrification is the
aerobic (microbially-mediated) oxidation of ammonia to nitrate, and
denitrification is the anaerobic microbial reduction of nitrate to
nitrogen gas (N,,2,,). N,,2,,O is a gaseous intermediate in the reaction
sequence of denitrification and a by-product of nitrification. One of
the main controlling factors in this reaction is the availability of
inorganic nitrogen in the soil. Human-attributable N,,2,,O emissions
therefore arise where net nitrogen (N) additions are made to managed
soils in the form of synthetic or organic fertilizers, manure, crop
residues, or sewage sludge, all of which contain forms of nitrogen. This
methodology describes N,,2,,O emissions associated with the addition of
N to managed soils via the urine and dung of grazing animals.

Both *direct* and *indirect* emission pathways of urine and dung-N (i.e.
urine and dung-associated nitrogen) are represented in the methodology.
Direct N,,2,,O-N (nitrous oxide associated nitrogen) production is
calculated on the basis of conversion factors which describe the rate at
which N,,2,,O-N is produced in relation to the quantity of urine and
dung-N added to the soil. Indirect emissions occur through
volatilisation and/or leaching of urine and dung-N from the soil. These
effects are each represented by (1) a factor describing the typical
fraction of urine and dung-N which is volatilised/leached; and (2) a
factor describing the rate at which this N is converted into N,,2,,O-N.

The total production of N,,2,,O-N attributable to a particular quantity
of added N is calculated by adding together all direct and indirect
quantities. This is then converted into an N,,2,,O emission quantity on
the basis of the relative molecular masses of N,,2,,O and N.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach.

### Model data

The rate at which N,,2,,O is emitted from urine and dung-N varies with
livestock type (in relation to factors such as the concentration of
urine in patches, and soil compaction). As such, conversion factors for
5 livestock types are provided within this methodology (e.g., *cattle*,
*poultry*, *sheep*).

Each livestock type is represented by a direct urine and dung-N to
N,,2,,O-N conversion rate (kg / kg), as well as the common factors for
indirect (volatilised/leached) conversion rates. In addition, this
methodology uses two general constants for deriving emissions quantities
from N,,2,,O-N:

  - *molecular mass ratio of N,,2,,O and N*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O-N quantity into N,,2,,O (44/28)

<!-- end list -->

  - *global warming potential of N,,2,,O*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O emissions quantity into
    **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
    quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
    effect.

### Activity data required

N,,2,,O emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of urine
and dung-N** added, which therefore needs to be specified in order to
make an emissions calculation. Indirect emissions associated with
leaching can be incorporated optionally, if appropriate to the scenario
under consideration.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to the specified quanity of urine and dung-N added to
managed soils.

The methodology calculates two emissions quantities: (1) the
**absolute** quantity of N,,2,,O; and (2) N,,2,,O emissions expressed in
terms of **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)**.

-----

## Related methodologies

N,,2,,O emissions associated with livestock manure are also covered in
the IPCC manure-management methodologies for [cattle and
swine](Cattle_and_swine_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions),
[poultry](Poultry_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions),
[fur-bearing](Fur_bearing_livestock_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions) and
[other livestock](Other_livestock_manure_nitrous_oxide_emissions). These
methodologies focus on a large variety of specific practices for storing
and treating manure, but include manure freely deposited on rangelands
(the 'pasture/range/paddock' option) which is directly analogous to this
methodology. The main difference is that the manure-management
methodology calculates emissions on the basis of **livestock
population** or **liveweight** and thus may be useful in those cases
where the mass of added manure-N is not known explicitly.

In addition, a number of other methodologies focus on emissions from
managed soils. These include those arising from the addition of
[urea](Soil_urea_application), [carbonates/lime](Soil_liming) and
[synthetic and organic
fertilizers](Fertilizer_associated_soil_N2O_emissions), as well as
[organically-managed](N2O_emissions_from_managed_organic_soils) soils.
