The [Greenhouse Gas Protocol](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/) (GHGP) is a
widely used international accounting tool for government and business
leaders to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions.
The GHGP is built by a partnership between the [World Resources
Institute](http://www.wri.org/) (WRI) and the [World Business Council
for Sustainable Development](http://www.wbcsd.org/) (WBCSD). It is the
foundation of many GHG standards and programs around the world from the
International Standards Organization to the Climate Registry.

Corporate Standard provides standards and guidance for companies and
other organizations preparing a GHG emissions inventory. The reporting
guidelines cover the six greenhouse gases covered by the Kyoto Protocol
- carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,), methane (CH,,4,,), nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O),
hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride
(SF,,6,,). The standard has been adopted by the International
Standardization Organization (ISO) and has become one of the leading
international standards enabling businesses to understand what is
required of them and create comparable reports.

## Data

The GHGP provides detailed advice, including data and methdologies for
calculating greenhouse gas emissions. The GHGP dataset is aggregated
from a number of sources, the major ones including the Environmental
Protection Agency ([EPA](http://www.epa.gov/)), the Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change ([IPCC](http://www.ipcc.ch/)) and the UK
Department for Energy and Climate Change
([DECC](http://www.decc.gov.uk/)). A substantial amount of information
is in AMEE directly from these sources, so there is a significant
overlap in data sources. For this reason, for example, the GHGP UK
transport data in AMEE comes under the DEFRA tag rather than GHGP.

The GHGP methodology builds on the experience and knowledge of over 350
leading experts drawn from businesses, NGOs, governments and accounting
associations. It has been road-tested by over 30 companies in nine
countries. This, with the addition of the AMEE quality control process,
ensures reliability and currency of data and advice.

## AMEE Last Updated

The AMEE GHG Protocol support represents the following worksheet
versions:

  - GHG emissions from stationary combustion 4.0 (Feb 2009)
  - GHG emissions from purchased electricity 4.2 (Jul 2011)
  - GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources 2.2 (Jun 2011)
  - GHG emissions from the production of aluminum 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of cement (US EPA) 1.0 (Aug 2002)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of cement (CSI) - English 2.0 (Jun
    2005)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of iron and steel 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of lime 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of ammonia 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - N2O emissions from the production of nitric acid 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - HFC-23 emissions from the production of HCFC-22 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - GHG emissions from pulp and paper mills 1.3 (Dec 2008)
  - N2O emissions from the production of adipic acid 2.0 (Mar 2008)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of cement (US EPA) - customized
    tool for India 1.0 (Jul 2005)
  - CO2 emissions from the production of cement (CSI) – Chinese version
    1.0 (Oct 2009)

## Calculation Tools

To complement the standard and guidance provided by the GHG Protocol, a
number of cross-sector and sector-specific calculation tools are
available. These tools provide step-by-step guidance and electronic
worksheets to help users calculate GHG emissions from specific sources
or industries. These tools are consistent with those proposed by the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for compilation of
emissions at the national level. They have been refined to be
user-friendly for non-technical company staff to increase the accuracy
of emissions data at a company level. Thanks to an intensive review by
many companies, organizations, and individual experts, the tools are
believed to represent the current “best practice.”

Calculating emissions is a multi-step process. An accurate and useful
inventory can only be developed after careful attention to quality
control issues and to the activity data required. Only then should
emissions be estimated. The GHG Protocol’s Corporate Standard provides
guidance on the entire inventory development process.

The list in the "Pages in this Standard" tab contains all AMEE
categories that are sourced from the GHGP worksheets. The most recent
data update was in June 2009. These updates are continually monitored by
AMEE to ensure currency and accuracy with all major methodologies and
data sets.
