**Paper industry methodology, pulping make-up chemicals. Calculates
carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,) emissions associated with the use of carbonate
make-up chemicals in pulping mills. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **carbon dioxide** (CO,,2,,) emissions
associated with the use of carbonate make-up chemicals within pulping
mills. The data and calculation methodology is sourced from the sourced
from the guidelines published by the International Council of Forest and
Paper Associations
([ICFPA](http://www.wbcsd.org/web/projects/forestry/Pulp-and-Paper-Tool-Guidance.pdf)).

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Small amounts of calcium and sodium carbonates (CaCO,,3,, and
Na,,2,,CO,,3,, respectively) are used within pulping mills in the
production and recycling of caustic soda, which is used in the pulp
making process. The consumption of these carbonates causes emissions of
CO,,2,,.

The methodology enables the calculation of CO,,2,, emissions associated
with the use of carbonate make-up chemicals. The methodology is based
upon 'emissions factors' which describe the quantity of CO,,2,, which is
associated with each unit quantity of carbonate. (These factors simply
represent the ratio of the molecular masses for CO,,2,, and CaCO,,3,, or
Na,,2,,CO,,3,,)). By multiplying a quantity of carbonate consumed by the
appropriate factor, an estimate of the corresponding emissions can be
made.

### Model data

4 scenarios are represented in the methodology, being differentiated on
the basis of the process context and the carbonate type. Each scenario
is, in turn, represented by characteristic emissions factor.

### Activity data required

CO,,2,, emissions are directly proportionate to the **quantity of
carbonate consumed**, which therefore must be provided in order to
calculate.

### Calculation and results

**CO,,2,,** emissions are calculated by simply multiplying the specified
quantity of carbonate consumed by the appropriate emissions factor.
These emissions represent those attributable to the specified quantity
of pulping liquor consumed.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other available methodologies relating to the paper industry relate to
the combustion of [biomass](Pulp_and_paper_biomass_emissions) and
[pulping liquors](Pulping_liquor_consumption).

-----

## Notes

This methodology represents emissions of CO,,2,, associated with the
carbonate-based make-up chemicals. The carbon contained within these
chemicals is usually fossil in origin, but may be derived from biomass.
This means that the CO,,2,, released was only removed from the
atmosphere relatively recently, during the growth of the biomass. In
some contexts may mean that the emissions can be considered neutral with
respect to its effects on atmoshperic carbon concentrations and warming.
