The AMEE category /transport/ship contains data and methodologies for
calculating ship-associated greenhouse gas emissions. Several
subcategories are available which provide functionality for calculating
passenger-oriented emissions and those related to ship-based freighting
of goods.

## Generic ship transport

The [Generic ship transport](Generic_ship_transport) category contains
greenhouse gas emissions data relating to ferry travel relating to the
United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland. The methodology uses
distance-based, *per passenger* emissions factors, requiring the user to
specify the distance travelled. Users may calculate according to single
'one-off' journeys, or by repeated journeys, and ppecific options relate
to walk-on and car-associated ferry travel. This category returns
CO,,2,, emissions only and should be considered as a useful first entry
point for ship-related transport.

## Generic ship transport by DEFRA

The [DEFRA ship transport](Ship_generic_Defra) category contains
greenhouse gas emissions data relating to ferry travel, sourced from the
UK government agency
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm).
The methodology uses distance-based, *per passenger* emissions factors,
requiring the user to specify the distance travelled and returns
CO,,2,,, CH,,4,, and N,,2,,O emissions related to walk-on or
car-associated ferry travel.

## Ship freighting

The [Ship freighting](Ship_freighting) category provides data and
methodologies sourced from the UK government agency
[DEFRA](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/pdf/ghg-cf-guidelines2008.pdf)
and the World Resources Institute [Greenhouse Gas Protocol
(GHGP)](http://www.ghgprotocol.org/calculation-tools/all-tools) for
calculating greenhouse gas emissions related to ship-based freighting.
These methodologies use distance-based, *per mass* of freight emissions
factors, requiring the user to specify the distance and mass of freight
transported in order to obtain an emissions estimate.
