The AMEE category at business/processes/production/sodaash provides a
methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions associated with the
production of soda ash. The methodology provides two ways to calculate,
based on either: (1) the quantity of inputs (trona) to the production
process; or (2) the quantity of soda ash produced. These approaches are
based on the known stoichiometric relationships between the trona
feedstock and the process products of CO,,2,, and soda ash. This
methodology represents the *Tier 1* (default values) and *Tier 2*
(facility- or country-specific values) approaches described by the IPCC
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories
([NGGIP](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol3.html)).

To use this category, choose whether the calculation should be based on
the consumption of trona or the production of soda ash using the *type*
drill choice.

Next, specify the quantity of either trona feedstock or soda ash product
(which ever is appropriate) using the ***mass*** profile item value. The
returned amount represents CO,,2,, emissions associated with this
quantity.

Users can specify a different emissions factor for either of the two
calculation options by setting the quantity of CO,,2,, emitted per
quantity of feedstock/product using the ***massCO2PerMass*** profile
item value. This represents the *Tier 2* approach described by the IPCC
Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories
([NGGIP](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/vol3.html)) and
should be used where users have facility-specific data.
