This page details how the electricity emission factors are calculated in
the [Real Time Electricity](Real_Time_Electricity) category of AMEE.

## Overview

For each fuel type used in the generation of electricity, a GEF
(generation emission factor) can be calculated by dividing the amount of
CO<sub>2</sub> emitted by the energy generated.

Our goal is to calculate the CEF (consumer emission factor), which gives
the amount of CO<sub>2</sub> emitted per unit of energy consumed by the end
user, e.g. via a mains socket in a house. The CEF is measured in
kgCO<sub>2</sub>/kWh in AMEE (the EF expressed in tCO<sub>2</sub>/MWh will have the
same value).

The methodology involves the following:

  - the amount of energy generated by each fuel type in a given time
    period

<!-- end list -->

  - estimating GEFs from historical data

<!-- end list -->

  - accounting for energy lost in the conversion to electricity

<!-- end list -->

  - accounting for the fact that the generation facility itself consumes
    some electricity

<!-- end list -->

  - accounting for energy lost in transmission

<!-- end list -->

  - addressing energy stored in and supplied by pumped storage

<!-- end list -->

  - electricity imported/exported via interconnectors to the UK grid
    from France and Ireland

Almost all of the data concerning the above for the various fuel types
can be found in the [Digest of United Kingdom energy
statistics](http://www.decc.gov.uk/en/content/cms/statistics/publications/dukes/dukes.aspx)
(DUKES), published by the UK government. In the following, DUKES2009
refers to the version published in 2009 that contains data for 2008 and
preceding years.

## Electricity generated, supplied and consumed

Usually, an electricity emission factor would give the mass of CO<sub>2</sub>
emitted per unit of energy used by a consumer (e.g. per kWh drawn out of
a mains power socket in a house). For the purposes of real time
electricity we need the mass of CO<sub>2</sub> per unit of energy generated.

For clarity we will use the following definitions:

  - generated energy - the amount of energy converted into electricity
    at the generating facility

<!-- end list -->

  - supplied energy (gross) - the generated energy less the energy used
    at the generating facility

<!-- end list -->

  - supplied energy (net) - the supplied energy (gross) less the energy
    lost in pumped storage

<!-- end list -->

  - consumed energy - the supplied energy (net) less the energy lost in
    transmission

<!-- end list -->

  - transmission system demand (TSD) - the total demand including
    electricity demands of pump storage, electricity consumed by
    generation facilities (auxiliary demand) and exports via
    interconnectors.

(The first four are used in DUKES and the TSD is referred to on the
[bmreports](http://www.bmreports.com) website.)

The DUKES table 5.6 was used to estimate various efficiency factors
relevant to the losses mentioned above. The two that are used in the
real time electricity methodology are: the factor used to estimate
supplied energy (gross) from generated energy (varying from 0.828 for
oil to 0.984 for CCGT) and the factor for transmission efficiency
(0.9257). The transmission efficiency includes losses in national and
local distribution and also losses associated with electricity theft and
minor irregularities in how metered energy is reported.

## Estimating GEFs

The GEF for a particular fuel type can be estimated by dividing the
total mass of CO<sub>2</sub> emitted by the total energy generated. The mass of
CO<sub>2</sub> can be estimated by multiplying the quantity of fuel used in
generating facilities (given by DUKES2009) by the appropriate fuel
emission factor (FEF).

An FEF is usually quoted in kgCO<sub>2</sub> per kWh or per kg or litre, as
appropriate. DUKES2009 gives FEFs in annex A, but we have used the more
recent electricity factors published in [DEFRA/DECC
CF](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm)
in 2009 which includes a factor specifically for coal used in
electricity generation.

The amount of fuel consumed in a year in the UK to generated electricity
is given in Table 5.1 of DUKES2009. These amounts can then be converted
to a mass of CO<sub>2</sub> by multiplying by the appropriate fuel emission
factor (FEF) for each fuel. DUKES2009 publishes these emission factors
in Annex A, but AMEE uses the slightly more recent values in [DECC
conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm).

In addition to the burning of fossil fuels in this country, we also
estimate the mass of CO<sub>2</sub> produced as a result of the net import of
electricity from France and Ireland via the interconnectors. This
estimate is based on the amount of electricity imported and exported
(DUKES2009 Table 5.1) and also the capacities of the interconnectors
(DUKES2009 Table 5.11). The emission factors for France and Ireland are
taken from the [Electricity](Electricity_by_country) category of AMEE.

## Checks on methodology and GEFs

Using the methods described above, we calculated that 171.7 Mt (Mega
tonnes) of direct CO<sub>2</sub> emissions were emitted due to electricity
generation (and importing) in the UK grid in 2008. This is close to the
171.3 Mt quoted in DUKES2009 Table E.1. The difference is due to the use
of slightly different emission factors and also our inclusion of
interconnector import/exports.

To provide another check on our methodology, we used the GEFs and
efficiency factors to estimate the average UK emission factor for
electricity in 2007. Our value of 0.547 kgCO<sub>2</sub>/kWh is close to the
(non-rolling average) value given in [conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm%20DECC)
of 0.543 kgCO<sub>2</sub>/kWh. The 0.7% difference is probably due to the
difference in the way interconnectors are treated.

## Pumped storage

The process of generating energy from PS does not produce any CO<sub>2</sub>
directly, but the energy that went into PS can be associated with
CO<sub>2</sub> from primary generation at the time the energy was stored. In
our methodology the CO<sub>2</sub> associated with PS is implicitly accounted
for at times when energy is being stored because PS is part of the TSD
(see above). Consistently, we associate no CO<sub>2</sub> with PS energy when
it is supplying the grid. Although this is not ideal, we are constrained
to this approach for two reasons: a) we have no way at present to
calculate the EF for supplied PS energy; b) there is no data on the
energy being put into PS at a given time.

The consequence of this approach is that the real time EF will be
slightly underestimated during times when energy is being put into PS
because it incorrectly treats PS as an end consumer of electricity.
Since PS was only responsible for 1.1% of supplied energy in 2008, the
uncertainty in the real time EF due to this issue will be small.
