## Summary

The information and data provided here represents CO,,2,, emissions
associated with grid electricity use after taking into consideration the
trading of GOs (Guarantees of Origin or Renewable Energy Guarantees of
Origin - REGOs) and similar products, as well as national and
international statistics for electricity generation.

The electricity *disclosure* and *residual mix* calculations for the
nordic countries are based on the results from the
[RE-DISS](http://www.reliable-disclosure.org) (Reliable Disclosure
Systems for Europe) project (RE-DISS, 2010)) as well as recommendations
based on the Energy Trading & Environment 2020 project (2011) can be
found within
[National-Domain](Nordic_Electricity_Disclosure_National_Domain) and
[Nordic-Domain](Nordic_Electricity_Residual_Mix_Disclosure_Nordic_Domain).

The data is taken from "Recommendation for Electricity Disclosure in the
Nordic Countries" from Ostfold Research/Energy Trading and Environment
2020 project. The information contained within the "Recommendation for
Electricity Disclosure in the Nordic Countries" document is based upon
[RE-DISS](http://www.reliable-disclosure.org) data.

-----

## Background

All EU Member States are required to establish and maintain a REGO or
Guarantees of Origin (GO) scheme. As such, all suppliers of electricity
are required to disclose their electricity portfolio with regard to
energy source and environmental impact, specifying the emissions of
CO,,2,, and the production of radioactive waste. The aim of Electricity
Disclosure is to provide consumers with relevant information about power
generation and to allow for informed consumer choice, not solely based
on electricity prices alone but also on environmental requirements. The
regulatory authority in each EU member has to ensure that the
information provided by suppliers to their customers is thus reliable
and is provided, at a national level, in a form which easily enables
comparison.

A Guarantees of Origin (GO) is simply defined as a certificate issued by
a regulatory authority to certify that the electricity in respect of
which it was issued was produced from eligible renewable energy sources
- a means of proving the origin of the electricity. Certificates are
issued electronically for a controlled quantity of electricity
generation (1 GO per MWh), within a ***domain***, which can be a region
or a country. They are traded and cancelled (used) by suppliers as
evidence to their customers of the origin of the delivered electricity.

The trading of GOs and similar products (e.g. Renewable Energy
Certificates - RECS) in Europe has increased substantially every year
from the start in 2001, exceeding 200 TWh in 2010, which accounts for
about 35% of renewable electricity generation in Europe. Suppliers can
use GOs to account for the correct amount of electricity in order to
achieve a satisfactory disclosure of the electricity mix.

Thus an electricity supplier can disclose the relevant attributes of the
GOs purchased by the consumer. For a customer who buys electricity as a
commodity, without any special requirements, the electricity will be
obtained via an electricity exchange or similar system. The disclosed
electricity will therefore represent a mix of electricity generated from
different energy sources. This electricity mix is known as the Residual
Mix1 and represents the consumption mix for all the customers who do not
purchase GOs in the related country/region.

-----

The data presented in within the
[National-Domain](Nordic_Electricity_Disclosure_National_Domain) and
[Nordic-Domain](Nordic_Electricity_Residual_Mix_Disclosure_Nordic_Domain)
methodologies shows the Electricity Disclosure for the Residual Mixes
2010 for the Nordic countries according to the RE-DISS project
([RE-DISS](http://www.reliable-disclosure.org), 2011 and Klimscheffskij,
2011).

Sweden and Finland have chosen to publish their Residual Mixes based on
a **Nordic domain** which means that the mixes are calculated based on
the physical electricity production and exchange, as well as corrections
of GOs and similar products within this region (Norway, Sweden, Denmark
and Finland). A **National domain** refers to the residual mix which is
based upon an individual country. There is a difference between the
Swedish and Finnish Residual Mixes (despite the fact that both are based
on a Nordic domain) because the publication of the Finnish Disclosure
happened before the relevant data for Bra Milj√∂val were available. Thus,
the Swedish Disclosure is the most correct Electricity Disclosure for
the Nordic Residual Mix.

The Danish Residual Mix (Energinet, 2011), based on the
[RE-DISS](http://www.reliable-disclosure.org) calculations (with some
national adjustments) and on a national domain is included within this
category.

As the Nordic domain is chosen by two of the countries (Sweden and
Finland) in the Nordic region, and a **National domain** is chosen by
Norway and Denmark. This, in itself, will lead to some degree of double
counting of the electricity attributes in the Nordic region, which
underlines the need for a coordinated, harmonised Disclosure System in
the region.

The Nordic Residual Mix for 2010 is calculated to consists of 43.8%
fossil, 25.3% renewable and 30.9% nuclear with corresponding
CO,,2,,-emissions of 320g CO,,2,,/kWh, based on RE-DISS data.

## Additional information

The Energy Trading and Environment 2020 project recommends that the
Electricity Disclosure for the Residual Mix in the Nordic countries
(Sweden, Finland, Denmark and Norway) is based on the calculations from
the [RE-DISS](http://www.reliable-disclosure.org) project. Further, it
is recommended that the Residual Mix is equal in all the Nordic
countries, thus based on a Nordic domain. This is in line with the
current practices in Sweden and Finland.

The argument for calculating such a common Residual Mix is that the
Residual Mix should be based on the same domain as the Nordic exchange
domain (Nord Pool). The Nordic Residual Mix for 2010) consists of 43.8%
fossil, 25.3% renewable and 30.9% nuclear with corresponding
CO,,2,,-emissions of 320g CO,,2,,/kWh, based on RE-DISS data.
