As society has become concerned with its impact on the natural world,
focus has moved to assess how businesses and industrial activities
affect the environment. Whilst businesses and industry have been
motivated by the key issue of the “environmental performance of products
and processes”, there is also a tacit acknowledgement of an economic
value attached to the greening of products or services. Consequently
many have demonstrated their compliance by providing "greener" products
using “greener” processes either within a voluntary or mandatory
(reporting) framework ([Life Cycle Assessment: Principles And
Practice](http://www.epa.gov/nrmrl/lcaccess/pdfs/600r06060.pdf)).

However to move beyond compliance, a system wide approach is required
which assesses the overall impact of a product or service throughout its
entire life cycle rather than the partitioned approach of more
traditional analyses. One of the predominant tools in this area is LCA
(Environmental Life cycle analysis, Curran 1996) which considers the
environmental impact from all the major activities in the course of the
product’s life-span: raw material acquisition, its manufacture, use, and
maintenance, to its final disposal ([Life Cycle Assessment: Principles
And Practice](http://www.epa.gov/nrmrl/lcaccess/pdfs/600r06060.pdf)).

-----

## Life Cycle Assessment

A life cycle assessment (LCA, also known as life cycle analysis) is an
objective technique to assess each and every (environmental) impact
associated with all stages of a process. It generally refers to
*cradle-to-grave* analysis (i.e., from raw materials through materials
processing, manufacture, distribution, use, repair and maintenance, and
disposal or recycling).

It assumes that all stages in the product’s (or process’s) life are
coupled, specifically that one operation leads on to the next and thus
allows the estimation of the cumulative environmental impacts from all
stages in the Life cycle. This comprehensive view of the environmental
aspect of the product (or process), allows an accurate view of the
underlying environmental trade-offs which are often not considered in
traditional analyses (e.g. raw material extraction, transportation,
consumption, disposal, etc.). Such techniques often use some form of
partitioning (boundary conditions) which can result in an skewed picture
in one part of the product or services life.

Several variants exist which use different start and end points withein
the analysis (such as *cradle-to-gate*). Others are based upon an
economics approach such as using aggregated sector-level data and input
and output analysis. Examples of such approaches are the Economic Input
Output Life cycle Analysis ([EIO-LCA](http://www.eeeiolca.net/)) method
available from the [Green Design
Institiute](http://gdi.ce.cmu.edu/index.html/) at [Carnegie Mellon
University](http://www.cmu.edu/index.shtml)

As regulatory bodies move towards the full accountability of a service
or product, Life cycle assessment has become a powerful decision-support
tool for policy makers or industry.

-----

## Implementing a Life Cycle Assessment

LCA is generally implemented by:

1.  Compiling an life cycle inventory (LCI) of relevant energy, material
    inputs, and environmental releases.
2.  Evaluating the potential impacts associated with identified inputs
    and releases.
3.  Interpreting the results.

more information on LCA can be found within the LCA section of the EPA
website [here](http://www.epa.gov/nrmrl/lcaccess/).

## Life Cycle Assessment Standards

The procedures of life cycle assessment (LCA) are part of the ISO 14000
environmental management standards: in **ISO 14040:2006** and
**14044:2006**. (ISO 14044 replaced earlier versions of ISO 14041 to ISO
14043.)

According to the ISO 14040 and 14044 standards, a Life Cycle Assessment
is carried out in four distinct phases.

1.  Goal & Scope Definition
2.  Inventory Analysis
3.  Impact Assessment
4.  Interpretation of the results

The *goal and scope definition* phase of an LCA includes decisions that
will be of relevance for all subsequent steps. Subsequent phases of the
LCA, the *Inventory Analysis* and the *Impact Assessment* phases, are
supported by the LCA data found within AMEEdiscover and AMEE API (see
*Life Cycle Assessment with AMEE* below). Interpreting the results, the
final phase, and in essence the motivation for the analysis, allows the
user to make a more informed decision regarding the outcomes of the LCA
analysis.

-----

## Life Cycle Assessment with AMEE

AMEE supplies LCA dataset from Ecoinvent and the *Centre for Agriculture
and Environment (CLM)* on a subscription basis along with selected LCA
data from the EPA and DEFRA on a non-subscription basis.

For further information on the Ecoinvent or CLM data within AMEE, please
see the [Ecoinvent in AMEE](Ecoinvent_database) or
[CLM](CLM_food_lifecycle_emissions) page.
