Where data on CO,,2,, emission factors for specific fuels are not
available, an emissions factor can be derived if the carbon content of
the fuel is known. This is based on the known relationship between a
mass of carbon and the mass of CO,,2,, which is produced on burning
together with an assumption of 100% burning efficiency - i.e. 100%
carbon converted to CO,,2,,.

-----

### C to CO,,2,, stoichiometry

During combustion of carbonaceous materials, 1 carbon atom (from the
material) combines with 2 oxygen atoms (from the environment), producing
CO,,2,,. The atomic mass of carbon, C, and oxygen, O, are 12 and 14
respectively, and therefore the molecular mass of CO,,2,, is 44. It
follows that the ratio of masses of atomic carbon to CO,,2,, is 44/12,
or approximately 3.667. By muliplying a quantity (mass) of carbon by
this factor, we can derived the equivalent quantity of CO,,2,, which is
produced on combustion.

-----

### Carbon content

If the concentration of carbon - or 'carbon content' - of a given
material is known, then it is straightforward to calculate the absolute
mass of carbon which is burned:

** mass,,carbon,, = mass,,fuel,, x %,,carbon,, **,

where %,,carbon,, is expressed on a decimal basis (i.e. 0-1). For
example, if 80% of a particular material comprises carbon, then the
quantity of carbon burned is simply the mass of fuel burned multiplied
by 0.80. Therefore, if one knows the carbon content of a given fuel and
the amount burned, the corresponding CO,,2,, emissions can be calculated
thus:

**mass CO,,2,, = mass,,fuel,, x %,,carbon,, x 3.667**,

where *%,,carbon,, \* 3.667* represents the 'emissions factor' for the
given fuel (or material more generally).

-----

### Expressing in other units

In some cases, an emissions factor which is applicable to other units of
quantity - e.g. energy or volume - are appropriate. These can be derived
by using the correct conversion factors.

A 'heating' or 'calorific' value is a value representing the energy
contained within a given material or fuel. These are usually expressed
in units such as *GJ per L* or *kWh per t*. Energy-based emissions can
be calculated using a mass-based heating value x

**mass CO,,2,, = energy consumed / energyContent,,fuel,, x %,,carbon,, x
3.667 **,

where energyContent,,fuel,, is the heating value for the particular fuel
(i.e. *energy per mass*). Similarly, one can calculate on the basis of
volumetric quantities by converting volume into an equivalent mass using
a value for material *density* (i.e. *mass per volume*):

**mass CO,,2,, = volume consumed x density,,fuel,, x %,,carbon,, x
3.667**,

where density,,fuel,, is the density (i.e. *mass per volume*) of the
given material.

All of these derivations assume 100% conversion of carbon into CO,,2,,.

-----
