**Fugitive emissions methodology, abandoned underground mines.
Calculates methane (CH,,4,,) emissions based on the time since mine
abandonment. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **methane** (CH,,4,,) emissions associated
with **abandoned, underground coal mines**. The data and calculation
methodology are sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in
*[Volume 2, Chapter 4 - Fugitive
Emissions](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/2_Volume2/V2_4_Ch4_Fugitive_Emissions.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

After closure, coal mines may continue to emit methane as a result of in
situ gases migrating through natural or manmade conduits such as old
portals, vent pipes, or cracks and fissures in the overlying strata.
Abandoned mines may flood as a result of groundwater intrusion or
surface flow, in which case emissions from *completely* flooded
abandoned mines can be treated as negligible. Non-flooded or
partially-flooded mines can continue to produce methane (CH,,4,,)
emissions over a long period of time.

This methodology calculates the **annual** fugitive CH,,4,, emissions
from abandoned mines, and is specifically applicable to mines considered
to be 'gassy' during the period in which they were active. The
methodology represents the IPCC *tier 1* approach.

Emissions are calculated on the basis of generic emissions factors which
describe the typical annual quantity of CH,,4,, emitted by a single
mine. Multiplying these emissions factors by the number of mines under
consideration provides an estimate of total annual CH,,4,, emissions.

Also factored in to calculations is the quantity of CH,,4,, which is
recovered during the annual period under consideration.

### Model data

The extent to which CH,,4,, is released from an abandoned mine depends
on the duration of time since abandonment. CH,,4,, emissions are at
their greatest immediately subsequent to abandonment and decrease
through time thereafter.

Under this methodology, specific emissions factors are provided for each
of the calendar years 1990-2016. These calendar years represent the year
for which emissions are under consideration and is called the 'inventory
year'. Each inventory year is represented by five emissions factors
which describe the quantity of CH,,4,, emitted during that calendar year
by mines abandoned during each of the following historical time periods:

  - *1901-1925*

<!-- end list -->

  - *1926-1950*

<!-- end list -->

  - *1951-1975*

<!-- end list -->

  - *1976-2000*

<!-- end list -->

  - *2001-present*

Also used for calculating emissions is the *global warming potential of
CH,,4,,* which enables the conversion of absolute CH,,4,, emissions into
a [CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) quantity - i.e.
the quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
effect

### Activity data required

Greenhouse gas emissions are directly proportionate to the **number of
mines** under consideration. The number of mines abandoned during **each
of the five historical time periods** must therefore be specified in
order to calculate.

The specification of a **volume of recovered methane** can also be
optionally provided.

### Calculation and results

CH,,4,, emissions for each of the five historical time periods are
calculated according to the specified number of mines and the respective
emissions factor. From the total CH,,4,, emissions calculated, any
CH,,4,, recovered during the inventory year is then subtracted.

Two emissions quantities are ultimately provided, representing:
**CH,,4,,** and **CO,,2,,e** emissions. All emissions calculated by this
methodology represent those attributable to the abandoned mines for the
annual period under consideration, minus any CH,,4,, which is recovered
during that time.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other IPCC methodologies which focus on mining-associated fugitive
emissions scenarios are available, covering
[underground](Underground_mining) and [surficial](Surface_mining) active
mines, the [tier 2](User_defined_abandoned_mines) methodology for
abandoned underground mines, and [methane flaring](Methane_flaring).

Where recovered methane is burned for energy production, flared, or fed
into a gas distribution system, the IPCC methodologies for [stationary
fuel combustion](Stationary_Combustion), [methane
flaring](Methane_flaring) and [oil and gas
processing](Oil_and_gas_fugitive_emissions) may be of interest.
