**Managed soils methodology, drained/managed organic soils. Calculates
nitrous oxide emissions (N,,2,,O and CO,,2,,e) based on land area
managed. Scenarios include boreal, temperate and tropical contexts with
cropland, grassland and forest land uses. Globally applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **nitrous oxide** (N,,2,,O) emissions
associated with **organically managed soils**. The data and calculation
methodology is sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published in
*[Volume 4, Chapter 11 - N2O Emissions from Managed Soils, and CO2
Emissions from Lime and Urea
Application](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_11_Ch11_N2O&CO2.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

Nitrous oxide (N,,2,,O) is produced naturally in soils through the
processes of nitrification and denitrification. Nitrification is the
aerobic (microbially-mediated) oxidation of ammonia to nitrate, and
denitrification is the anaerobic microbial reduction of nitrate to
nitrogen gas (N,,2,,). N,,2,,O is a gaseous intermediate in the reaction
sequence of denitrification and a by-product of nitrification. Aside
from the direct application of N to soils (which is otherwise a
rate-limiting factor), human-attributable N,,2,,O emissions arise from
the mineralization of soil N following the drainage and management of
organic soils. This methodology describes N,,2,,O emissions associated
with such organic soil management.

The methodology calculates N,,2,,O emissions based on conversion factors
which describe the rate at which quantities of soil-N (i.e.
soil-assocaited nitrogen) are converted into quantities of N,,2,,O-N
(nitrous oxide-assocaited nitrogen) per unit of land area managed (i.e.
kg / ha). Multiplying the area of land managed (e.g. ha) by this
conversion factor, produces an estimate for the total production of
N,,2,,O-N attributable to that area of managed soil. This quantity is
then converted to a quantity of N,,2,,O emissions on the basis of the
relative molecular masses of N,,2,,O and N.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach.

### Model data

Conversion factors for 9 organic soil management scenarios are provided
within this methodology, differentiated by their **climatic context**
(e.g., *temperate*, *tropical*, *boreal*) and **land use** (e.g.
*cropland*, *forest*). Each scenario is represented by a **direct
N,,2,,O-N conversion rate** (kg / ha). In addition, this methodology
uses two general constants for deriving emissions quantities from
N,,2,,O-N:

  - *molecular mass ratio of N,,2,,O and N*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O-N quantity into N,,2,,O (44/28)

<!-- end list -->

  - *global warming potential of N,,2,,O*: the factor for converting a
    N,,2,,O emissions quantity into
    **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
    quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
    effect.

### Activity data required

N,,2,,O emissions are directly proportionate to the **area of land
managed**, which therefore needs to be specified in order to make an
emissions calculation.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to the specified area of land on which organic soils are
managed.

The methodology calculates two emissions quantities: (1) the
**absolute** quantity of N,,2,,O; and (2) N,,2,,O emissions expressed in
terms of **[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)**.

-----

## Additional information

### Nomenclature

IPCC advice states: *Soils are organic if they satisfy the requirements
1 and 2, or 1 and 3 below (FAO, 1998) ([World Reference Base for Soils,
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
Rome, 1998](http://www.fao.org/docrep/w8594e/w8594e00.htm)): 1.
Thickness of 10 cm or more. A horizon less than 20 cm thick must have 12
percent or more organic carbon when mixed to a depth of 20 cm; 2. If the
soil is never saturated with water for more than a few days, and
contains more than 20 percent (by weight) organic carbon (about 35
percent organic matter); 3. If the soil is subject to water saturation
episodes and has either: (i) at least 12 percent (by weight) organic
carbon (about 20 percent organic matter) if it has no clay; or (ii) at
least 18 percent (by weight) organic carbon (about 30 percent organic
matter) if it has 60 percent or more clay; or (iii) an intermediate,
proportional amount of organic carbon for intermediate amounts of clay
(FAO, 1998).*

### Climatic zones

The IPCC classification for global climatic zones can be seen using the
gallery tab.

-----

## Related methodologies

A number of other methodologies focus on emissions from managed soils.
These include those arising from the addition of [urine and
dung](Animal_associated_soil_N2O_emissions),
[urea](Soil_urea_application), [carbonates/lime](Soil_liming) and
[synthetic and organic
fertilizers](Fertilizer_associated_soil_N2O_emissions).
