This page represents a dataset describing the physical properties for a
number of fossil- and biofuels. The data originates from the UK
government department [DEFRA](DEFRA_DECC), as published in their most
recent *Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company
Reporting*^^\[1\]^^ documentation.

-----

## The dataset

This dataset describes a number of physical properties associated with a
wide range of fuels, specifically measures of **energy content** (net
and gross calorific values) and **density**. These are properties which
vary between different fuel types due to differences in the physical and
chemical characteristics of each fuel. The values are useful for
converting between measures of fuel quantity based on fuel mass, volume
and energy yield. This, in turn, provides flexibility in the ways in
which the associated greenhouse gas emissions are calculated.

27 distinct fuel types are represented (including methane, which can be
both a fuel and a combustion by-product), while density values are also
provided for carbon dioxide (CO,,2,,).

### Energy content

The energy content of fuels is a measure of the heat energy which is
yielded on combustion, measured herein in gigajoules (GJ) per tonne (t)
of fuel. The energy content allows the conversion between mass-based and
energy-based fuel quantities. For example, knowing that diesel contains
42.81 GJ of energy per tonne, allows one to calculate the quantity of
energy within, say, 5 tonnes (214.05 GJ) or alternatively the mass of
diesel which would contain, say, 100 GJ (2.34 t).

Two values for energy content are provided for each fuel type: the
*gross* and the *net* energy content per mass of fuel. The gross energy
content represents the total energy contained with the particular fuel.
The net energy on the other hand represents a lower quantity of energy;
specifically, the gross energy content minus the *latent heat of
vaporization of water*. This arises in cases where the energy contained
within the water vaporized during combustion is not recovered. The
choice of energy content measure depends on knowledge of the combustion
process.

### Density

Fuel density is simply the mass of a specific volume of fuel. Again,
this value differs between all fuels, but most notably between
liquid-phase (e.g. *aviation turbine fuel*) and gaseous (e.g. *natural
gas*) fuels. Solid-phase fuel (e.g. *coal*) are not conducive to
volumetric measures and therefore are not represented by measures of
density.

Density permits the conversion between mass-based and volume-based fuel
quantities. For example, knowing that 1 m^^3^^ of natural gas weighs
0.7459 kg allows one to calculate the mass of, say, 20 m^^3^^ (14.918
kg) or alternatively the volume occupied by, say, 200 kg (268.13
m^^3^^).

Two values for density are provided which are direct inversions of one
another: the *mass per volume* of fuel (kg per m^^3^^); and the *volume
per mass* of fuel (litres (L) per tonne (t)).

-----

## Related methodologies

The fuel properties dataset represented by this page was used in the
derivation of emissions factors in several fuel-associated greenhouse
gas emissions methodologies published by [DEFRA](DEFRA_DECC). These
include methodologies for the stationary combustion of fossil fuels by
[energy](Energy_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA),
[mass](Mass_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA) and
[volume](Volume_based_fuel_combustion_by_DEFRA), the stationary
combustion of [biomass](DEFRA_Biomass_fuel_methodology),
[biofuels](Biofuels_by_DEFRA) and [biofuel
blends](Blended_fuels_by_DEFRA), and the [mobile
combustion](DEFRA_transport_fuel_methodology) of fuels during
transportation.

In addition, several other greenhouse gas emissions calculation
methodologies provided by AMEE use the fuel property dataset described
herein to provide fuel quantity conversions: these include the
[IPCC](IPCC) methodologies for [European road
transport](European_road_transport_by_IPCC) and US-based road transport
with [conventional](US_road_transport_by_IPCC) and
[alternative](US_road_transport_with_alternative_fuels_by_IPCC) fuels.

-----

## Useful links

1.  *DEFRA / DECC's Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company
    Reporting*
    [homepage](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting)
