**Domestic livestock methodology, manure management and storage.
Calculates methane emissions (CH,,4,, and CO,,2,,e) based on livestock
population. Scenarios represent various types of poultry. Globally
applicable.**

## Summary

This methodology represents **methane** (CH,,4,,) emissions associated
with the **management and storage of poultry manure**. The data and
calculation methodology is sourced from the [IPCC](IPCC), as published
in *[Volume 4, Chapter 10 - Emissions from Livestock and Manure
Management](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/pdf/4_Volume4/V4_10_Ch10_Livestock.pdf)*
of their *[2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas
Inventories](http://www.ipcc-nggip.iges.or.jp/public/2006gl/index.html)*.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The decomposition of manure under *anaerobic* conditions (i.e., in the
absence of oxygen), during storage and treatment, produces CH,,4,,.
These conditions occur most readily when large numbers of animals are
managed in a confined area (e.g., dairy farms, beef feedlots, and swine
and poultry farms), and where manure is disposed of in liquid-based
systems.

This emissions methodology is based upon emissions factors which
describe the typical rate at which manure-associated CH,,4,, is produced
by *single 'heads' of livestock* (i.e. individual animals) and are
expressed on an **annual** basis. These data are based on typical
volatile solid excretion rates and maximum methane production capacities
for each specific livestock type as well as manure =\> methane
conversion factors weighted according to the manure management type mix
specific to each regional context and indicative annual temperature.

Annual emission rates for a population or sub-population of livestock
(e.g. *kg / year*) are calculated by multiplying the *per animal*
emissions rates by the total number of livestock under consideration.

This methodology represents the IPCC *Tier 1* approach.

### Model data

The rate at which CH,,4,, is emitted ultimately depends on the quantity
of manure decomposing anaerobically, which, in turn, depends on the
number of animals, the rate of waste production per animal, and how the
manure is managed. When manure is stored or treated as a liquid (e.g.,
in lagoons, ponds, tanks, or pits), it decomposes anaerobically and can
produce a significant quantity of CH,,4,,. In these cases, the
temperature and duration of storage greatly affect the amount of CH,,4,,
produced. Where manure is handled as a solid (e.g., in stacks or piles)
or deposited on pastures and rangelands, it tends to decompose under
more aerobic conditions and less CH,,4,, is produced (biogenic CO,,2,,
is produced instead). The typical mix of management practices employed
varies with geographic location and/or developmental context.

As such, emissions factors for a broad range of scenarios are provided
within this methodology. A total of 18 specific scenarios are
represented, differentiated by **poultry type** (e.g., *layers*,
*broilers*, *ducks*), **geographic/developmental context** (e.g.,
*developed country*, *developing country*) and typical **temperature
regime** (e.g. *cool* (\<15 °C), *temperate* (15-25 °C) and *warm* (\>25
°C)).

Poultry for *developing countries* are represented by a generic poultry
type only, with emissions differentiated only by temperature, and not by
distinct poultry type.

Each scenario is represented by an annual manure-associated methane
emissions rate per individual animal (kg / yr). In addition, the
methodology uses the *global warming potential* of CH,,4,, to convert
absolute emissions quantities into
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
effect.

### Activity data required

Methane emissions are directly proportionate to the **total population
of poultry** kept. The total number of poultry under consideration must
therefore be specified in order to make an emissions calculation.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those
attributable to the specified population of livestock over a period of 1
year.

The methodology calculates two emissions quantities: (1) the
**absolute** quantity of methane associated with the livestock
population; and (2) methane emissions expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
effect.

-----

## Additional information

### Nomenclature

Following [IPCC](IPCC) advice, the term *manure* is used collectively to
include both dung and urine (i.e., the solids and the liquids) produced
by livestock.

-----

## Related methodologies

Analogous methodologies are also available focussing on [cattle and
swine](Cattle_and_swine_manure_methane_emissions) and
[other](Other_manure_methane_emissions) livestock CH,,4,, emissions
associated with manure management.
