The UK government Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs
publishes greenhouse gas conversions for a comprehensive range of
transport scenarios. AMEE supports all of the data and calculation
methodologies published in their most recent [greenhouse gas (GHG)
conversion
factors](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/business/reporting/conversion-factors.htm)
documentation.

Details can be found by following these links:

## Transport fuel

Transport associated greenhouse gas emissions can be calculated on the
basis of **fuel consumption** using [this DEFRA
methodology](DEFRA_transport_fuel_methodology) which represents several
types of transport fuels: **petrol**, **diesel**, **compressed natural
gas** (CNG) and **liquefied petroleum gas** (LPG). This is the most
accurate way to calculate transport-associated emissions.

## Road vehicles

DEFRA provides emissions data representing numerous forms of road
transportation. This data enables greenhouse gas emissions calculations
on the basis of **distance(s) travelled** and the type of vehicle used.
Methodologies which characterise road vehicles by
[size](DEFRA_road_transport_methodology_by_vehicle_size) and by [market
segment](DEFRA_road_transport_methodology_by_vehicle_class) are
available covering a broad range of **cars**, **vans** and
**motorcycles**. [\*\*Heavy goods
vehicles\*\*](DEFRA_heavy_goods_vehicle_methodology) are also
represented. These methodologies represent emissions attributable to
**whole vehicles**.

## Passenger transport

Greenhouse gas emissions associated with passenger/public transport can
also be calculated using the DEFRA [passenger
transport](DEFRA_passenger_transport_methodology) dataset and
methodology. This data represents greenhouse gas emissions attributable
to **individual passengers** using various types of **bus**, **plane**,
**rail** and **ferry** transport and based on **distance travelled**. If
specific travel distances are not known, passenger emissions for air
travel between two known locations or airports can be calculated by
using the methodology for [Great Circle
routes](Great_Circle_flight_methodology).

## Freight

Greenhouse gas emissions associated with the [freighting of
goods](DEFRA_freight_transport_methodology) can also be calculated using
the DEFRA conversion factors, which resolve emissions on the basis of
the distance and quantity (i.e. mass) freighted. A comprehensive range
of freighting scenarios are available covering road, rail, and air
freighting as well as an exhaustive range of shipping scenarios. If
specific freighting distances are not known, air freighting between two
known locations or airports can be calculated by using the methodology
for [Great Circle routes](Great_Circle_flight_methodology).
