This page represents a greenhouse gas emissions methodology for the
**freighting** of goods. The data and calculation methodology originates
from the UK government department [DEFRA](DEFRA_DECC), as published in
their most recent *Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company
Reporting*^^\[1\]^^ documentation.

-----

## The methodology

### Emissions model

The emissions methodology is based upon emissions factors which describe
the rate at which greenhouse gas emissions are produced during the
freighting of goods in relation to **distance** travelled and the
**quantity** of goods freighted. These emissions factors represent
emissions associated with *individual units of freight*, which can be
contrasted with similar transport-related emissions factors which
describe emissions on the basis of *entire vehicles* (e.g. entire ship
or lorry).

Emissions - expressed in terms of mass (e.g. *kg*) - are calculated by
multiplying these rates (*mass emitted per mass per distance*; e.g. *kg
CO,,2,, per tonne km*) by a distance (e.g *km*) and quantity (e.g.
*tonne*) freighted.

### Model data

The rate at which freight transportation produces greenhouse gas
emissions varies with the mode of transport, depending on factors such
as the fuel efficiency (i.e. the distance acheived per unit of fuel
consumed) of the particular type of vehicle (e.g. lorry, plane, train,
ship) as well as the typical freight loading. Fuel efficiency may be
related factors such as the type of fuel used (e.g. petrol, diesel,
biofuel, electricity) and the physical dynamics of the transportation
context (i.e. road, rail, water, air). The loading of freight indicates
the extent to which the emissions of the entire vehicle can be 'shared'
between units of freight. Therefore, emissions factors for a broad range
of generalised freight transport scenarios are provided.

A total of 75 specific types of freight transport scenarios are
represented and are differentiated by transport type (i.e. ship, plane,
rail, van, heavy goods vehicle), subtype (e.g. 'petrol' *versus*
'diesel' vans, 'crude tanker' *versus* 'general cargo' in shipping) and
vehicle size (e.g. gross vehicle weight, deadweight tonnes, TEU, CEU).

Each freight transport type is represented by six distinct emissions
factors which differentiate greenhouse gas emissions into the following
types:

  - *direct* CO,,2,, emissions: carbon dioxide emissions produced
    *during* freighting, i.e. fuel combustion
  - *direct* CH,,4,, emissions: methane emissions produced *during*
    freighting, i.e. fuel combustion
  - *direct* N,,2,,O emissions: nitrous oxide emissions produced
    *during* freighting, i.e. fuel combustion
  - *total direct* emissions: all direct emissions, i.e. CO,,2,, +
    CH,,4,, + N,,2,,O
  - *indirect* emissions: emissions associated with stages in the fuel
    production chain such as raw material extraction and fuel delivery
  - *total* or '*life cycle*': the total of direct and indirect
    emissions

Each of these emissions factors are expressed in terms of kg
[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials) per tonne km.

### Activity data required

According to this methodology, greenhouse gas emissions are directly
proportionate to **distance** and quantity (**mass**) of goods
freighted, both of which therefore must be specified in order to make an
emissions calculation.

### Calculation and results

This emissions calculated by this methodology represent those **per unit
of freight** and therefore should be considered attributable to the
freighting of the specified quantity of freight only (rather than, say,
the emissions attributable to the entire vehicle(s) on which it was
transported).

The methodology calculates several emissions quantities including
**direct CO,,2,,**, **CH,,4,,**, **N,,2,,O** as well as **indirect** and
total **life cycle** emissions. All quantities in this methodology are
expressed in terms of
**[CO,,2,,e](Greenhouse_gases_Global_warming_potentials)** - the
quantity of CO,,2,, which would exert the same atmospheric warming
effect and the emissions quantity.

-----

## Additional information

### Great circle distance 'uplift' factors

Following [IPCC](IPCC) advice, the DEFRA methodology stipulates that
flight distances which are defined as direct 'great circle' distances
between two locations should be inflated by 9% in order to account for
the typical indirect routing of actual flights and deviations related to
congestion. The calculations for air travel made herein assume that the
distance specifed is known to be the *actual* distance flown - rather
than the distance estimated on the basis of the Great Circle - and
therefore this adjustment factor is **not** applied. In order to make
calculations based on Great Circle estimates between two locations
(airports or specifed by latitiude/longitude) see the [Great Circle
route](Great_Circle_flight_methodology) methodology.

-----

## Related methodologies

Other DEFRA transport methodologies available representing road vehicles
differentiated by
[size](DEFRA_road_transport_methodology_by_vehicle_size) and [market
segment](DEFRA_road_transport_methodology_by_vehicle_class), [heavy
goods vehicles](DEFRA_heavy_goods_vehicle_methodology) and [passenger
transport](DEFRA_passenger_transport_methodology) are also available.

-----

## Useful links

1.  *DEFRA / DECC's Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors for Company
    Reporting*
    [homepage](http://www.defra.gov.uk/environment/economy/business-efficiency/reporting)
